

=== Before Starting the Course ===


--- Course Overview ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hey guys
Welcome to the first actual lecture of the course.
We're gonna talk about, 'become a Product Manager'
why we made it, what we're gonna cover
what you should expect
and give you guys some tips with how you should go forward.
First, I thought we should just step back
and answer the question, why did we make this course?
(whimsical music)
-: We made this course because
as I got into my career as a product manager
there were so many people that came up to me and are asking
How do I become a product manager and what do I need to do?
And as you might know, product management is not
something that you can study in school.
There's no major for it.
There's very few formal education programs
in order to get into product management.
-: Yeah, and so I wanted to make
'become a product manager' because I have 11 courses
in entrepreneurship and I know that a lot of my students
want to build a more well-rounded skill set
with regards to starting their own venture
and product management is essential to that.
You need to have a basic understanding
of product management if you're ever gonna be successful
as an entrepreneur, you know, there's a lot
of skills that go into starting a venture
but then after it actually gets some customers
and it's off and it's running
it's now a product and you have to manage it.
You have to make hard day to day decisions
about what features to drop,
what feedback should you filter out or take,
how do you prioritize what metrics matter?
All of this stuff is just crucial to being an entrepreneur.
(whimsical music)
Well, I mean, we kind of alluded to it already.
It's people who want to become a product manager
or entrepreneurs
or graphic designers,
even if you're just someone who has programming experience
and you wanna learn this discipline
because product management, I mean you'll see in the course,
it touches everything.
It's, kind of at the center of all of the disciplines
you will run into when you're in a startup.
-: It's also for people that are just now getting
into product management and are wondering really
how to become a more advanced product manager.
What are the rules and responsibilities and roles
around being a product manager
at a company of various sizes?
Because it, it does change.
(whimsical music)
-: We have 16 sections, something like that.
So we cover an enormous amount of information.
It's divided into two different large sections
essentially modules, we'll call it.
The first one is learning the discipline
of product management,
learning all of the concepts and the skills
associated with it.
Then the second part is for those of you out there
who wanna get a job, we're gonna take those skills
and snowball them into finding a job that fits
angling yourself for that job, researching the company
writing your resume, getting the interview
and then nailing the interview, getting the job.
And then we even have a section on beyond that.
-: Yeah, we even cover some of the more minutia
sorts of things like technology.
We'll actually go in and define all the technology
that you'll need to know
in order to say, interact with engineers more effectively.
And we talk about more granular things like metrics
and the metrics that matter and metrics that don't
and give you practice and activities on all these sections.
-: Yeah, we also cover a lot of skills that are not
absolutely necessary to being a product manager
but will make you a really good one.
We have an extensive section on building MVPs
because that's my specialty,
so I'm teaching a hardcore version
of how to build and test MVP experiments.
We also do things like wire framing
like you might not necessarily need to know wire framing
but you're in a much better position if you know how to.
-: We even have section at the end
that covers once you've got a job in product management,
again, we help you with your resume
and where to look and all that sort of thing
but once you've got the job, how do you excel?
What are the first things you should do
as a product manager, and then how do you excel?
And this is stuff that I've picked up
over six plus years of being a product manager myself.
-: All right guys, so I hope you're excited
to take the course. We're excited to teach it.
There's a lot, a lot of information in here.
If you finish this thing, you'll be insanely knowledgeable.
-: Yeah, you'll be in a really good spot.
A much better spot, I guarantee you
than I was in when I started out my career
or any number of current product managers
because like I said they all got into it
in a roundabout way.
And only now are we getting to the point where
we can train people using courses online like this one.
-: Yeah. All right guys.
See you in the next lecture.
-: See you in there.

--- First Thing to Do ---

-: Hey, guys, welcome back.
So, we actually have your first homework assignment.
There's a lot of homework in this course
because we want you to learn it, but this is your first one.
Don't screw up on this one.
This is just fun.
I want you guys to actually introduce yourself
and all I wanna hear from you guys is, who are you,
tell me a little bit about yourself,
what do you wanna learn from this course
and what are you struggling with?
Because we use all this information
to make the course better.
If you guys are saying you're struggling with this,
we'll come back with new content
and actually direct it towards that.
-: Everyone in this course is of course interested
in a topic of product management
whether they are a current one trying to get into the role
or really just an entrepreneur looking to master the skill.
So, everyone is like-minded and it would be silly
to lose out on this opportunity to network
with like-minded people.
-: Yeah, most product managers, when they get their jobs
they didn't get it alone.
They had help from other people.
So you guys can help each other
'cause you're in the perfect situation to do it.
Okay, so, stop the lecture.
Actually, go do it. We'll see you the next lecture.
-: See you in there.
(gentle music)


=== Introduction to Product Management ===


--- Choose your own adventure - we'll tell you which lectures to watch *SAVE TIME!* ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Introduction to Product Development ===


--- Join our community on Slack! ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Ideas and User Needs ===


--- Review sheets, activities, & resources - all in one PDF! ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Competitive and Market Analysis ===


--- What is a Product Manager? ---

(upbeat music)
-: The ambiguity of the product management role
is near to its essence.
Welcome back.
I hope you're excited about starting this course.
Let's go ahead and dive right in.
In this lecture,
we're gonna talk about what product management actually is,
and by the end of this lecture,
you'll have a really solid understanding of the role
and hopefully be even more excited
about the rest of the course.
Does that excite you?
If it doesn't, you can't be a product manager,
you should probably leave.
I'm kidding.
But this Venn diagram pretty much sums up
my entire existence.
I also love graphs.
So product management
is actually a pretty difficult role to define,
which is why you don't really find any concrete, concise,
good explanations just by Googling it.
Try Googling it right now
and I challenge you to find a really good description.
(gentle music)
In fact, the role of the product manager
and their exact responsibilities change
across different industries in different companies.
If at one company you're a product manager
and you have one set of responsibilities,
you might have a completely different
set of responsibilities at another company,
depending on the company, the industry and the size.
What we'll focus on here are the core tenants
that make up product management.
The first and most important thing to know
about product management is that
you're actually not a manager of anybody.
No one reports to you, you're nobody's boss,
and you definitely can't fire anyone.
This is actually by design,
because a product manager needs to continuously interact
with a number of different people,
get maximum collaboration from their engineers
and also the designers that they work with.
Think about it for a second.
If you wanted honest feedback from engineers
and designers that you work with,
but you're also their boss,
do you think they're gonna tell you
if they have any disagreements with what you have to say?
Probably, not.
So you want them to tell you every single time
that they disagree with you.
A product manager is someone that sits in between
multiple areas of a company
and acts as a communications hub, organizer,
and enabler for everyone else.
So here's kind of a funny story.
We once had a new engineer join our company
and he asked, "What do you do?"
He hadn't worked with a product manager before.
And before I could answer, the other engineer said,
"That's the person that stops sales
and legal from emailing you."
(crowd laughs)
As a product manager, you're kind of a blocker/enabler
for engineers and designers.
The communication and enabling aspect
of product management is a very important one.
Engineers are very good at engineering
and designers are very good at designing.
So it's best if these people spend their time
doing what they're best at.
While engineers focus on solving hard technical challenges,
product managers are talking to various stakeholders
users, receiving feedback,
and looking at metrics to decide
what things can be built next
and which of those things is most important
and the best use of time.
Have you ever used a product
either software or something physical,
where many things about that product are really good,
but then there's one small piece
that's just really terrible?
If there's something wrong with any product,
you can blame the product manager.
Basically, a product manager is someone who's responsible
for that product being successful or not.
To recap, the product manager is many things,
a communications hub, a prioritizer,
a researcher, a presenter,
but most importantly,
they're responsible for the ultimate success of the product.
So your next question is probably,
"All right, so what's a product?"
Well, I'm glad you asked,
because that's what we're gonna talk
about in the next lecture.


=== Customer Development ===


--- What is a Product? ---

-: Hey, welcome back.
So, what is a product?
Bear with me here
because I know this seems like a silly question,
but it's actually a topic
that you need to really pay attention to
as a product manager.
Obviously, everyone knows what a product is.
It could be anything.
It could be a keyboard that I have here in front of me.
It could be a laptop or the device you're using right now.
My shirt is a product.
The web browser that you have on your computer is a product.
All of these things are products
by the classical definition.
So, we know from the title product manager
that a product manager is someone that manages
a given product.
However, it's not always the case
that a product manager is in charge of an entire device
or piece of software.
In many startups, and especially large companies,
product managers are in charge of sections
of what we normal consumers
would typically think of as a product.
I'll give you an example here.
When you use Facebook,
you're actually using a multitude of different features.
At companies like this, each feature is so vital and complex
that it's usually assigned to a group of people
called a product team or a feature team to manage it.
So, at Facebook, the photos are one product.
It's a feature.
It's called a product in product management lingo.
The newsfeed is a product.
The user profile is a product.
Messaging and commenting, those are both products, too.
Every single one of these products
is managed by a product manager
and worked on by them and a team of designers and engineers,
which again are called product teams or feature teams.
Let's go a little bit deeper with that Facebook example.
The newsfeed at Facebook has multiple product managers
working on it, believe it or not,
because it's such a big piece of technology.
One product manager leads a team
that works on the ranking algorithm.
One product manager leads a team
that works on the advertisements,
and there are a bunch of other product managers
working on different things
that have to do with that newsfeed.
But there are also cases where product managers
are not split up by the features
in larger applications or products like Facebook
or by pieces of software,
but rather split up by platform.
For instance, at a company, there may be a product manager
in charge of everything on the Android app
and another one in charge of everything on iOS
and another one in charge of the website.
This is just a different model of working.
There are also product managers that work on things
like advertising and subscription services,
depending on the business model of the company.
We'll talk more about the different types
of product managers in a little bit.
So, now we should be clear
that as far as the role of a product manager goes,
a product can be anything from an entire real-life product
as a consumer sees it,
or in some cases split up into smaller sections
for larger companies or more complex products.
All right, in the next lecture we're gonna talk about
the different types of product managers.
I will see you there.


=== Designing and Running Experiments ===


--- [ACTIVITY] The Big, Bloated, Blue Bird ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Conceptualizing the Solution ===


--- Three Different Types of Product Manager Roles ---

-: What is up everybody?
In this lecture we're gonna talk
about the different kinds of product managers.
We're also gonna learn some buzzwords, so yay for that.
So there's more than one type of product manager
in the world of software development and technology.
Three that we're gonna talk about right now
are internal product managers, consumer product managers,
and business to business product managers,
which are also sometimes called
SAAS product managers or software as a service.
So, are you confused yet?
It's fine. Don't be.
The primary difference in these roles
is their stakeholders, and that is
the buzzword I was talking about.
Stakeholders is a fancy term for people
who you are building for or who
have input into what you are building.
So can you think of some examples of stakeholders?
Well, users are stakeholders and so are executives
that rely on what you're building to be good.
Lawyers at your company that need to be sure what
you're building won't get the company
in legal trouble - those are also stakeholders.
Marketing is also a stakeholder because they need to know
what you're building and they wanna
have some input because they have to market good stuff.
Anyways enough with the stakeholders.
Let's talk about the internal product manager.
These product managers are sometimes part of
a team called internal tools or something like that.
They and their teams usually build tools
for other people in their company organization.
They build these tools for use internally
as opposed to building for some general user
or customer out in the public.
A really good example of an internal product manager
is one that works with their team
to build a piece of software that, say,
the company's support team uses to reset passwords
or change account information for users.
The stakeholder is someone internally,
it's the person that's using that piece of software.
So how about the business to business product manager?
This is a type of product manager
that builds products at a company
whose clients are other companies.
Some examples of this are Oracle or Salesforce.
Those products are designed
to solve problems for other companies.
At companies like this, the stakeholders,
or the people that the product manager is working
with their team to build for, are these other companies.
This means that the product manager
interacts a lot with the sales people
at their own company and needs to
make sure what they build meets the business
requirements of the businesses
that they're selling to.
If you're a B to B product manager,
you're gonna be talking a lot to sales teams.
So onto the third type, business to consumer
product manager. What does a consumer
product manager do?
Consumer product manager tends to be more common.
It just means you're a product manager
where the product is for an average consumer.
I myself am a consumer product manager
at SoundCloud because I work on parts of the app
that millions of people out in the public
use every day. Some other examples
where there's a lot of consumer product managers
are Facebook and Twitter and Instagram,
this sort of thing. The consumer product management
role takes a wide range of skills to be successful in,
as well, a lot of vision and creativity.
In the consumer role, product managers
are trying to maximize usage or some other metric.
No one is there to tell them that item X
is the best thing to do next.
That contrasts to the business to business
product manager for example, because
the sales people are saying, hey
we're gonna make $5 million if we build
this feature. On the consumer side,
no one can really predict exactly
what is the thing that needs to be built for sure.
So the consumer PM spends a whole lot
of time talking to those users,
those users, the millions of them
out there, coming up with multiple different
prototypes, user testing, AB testing,
and just analyzing tons of data.
The bigger the user base,
the more powerful the testing becomes.
Alright, so that's it for the three types
of product managers. We have
an internal tools product manager,
a business to business product manager,
and a business to consumer product manager.
There are other types of PMs out there,
but those are the really the big three
you gotta be familiar with.
I will see ya in the next lecture.
(upbeat electronic music)


=== Metrics for Product Managers - Defining Success and Measuring Results ===


--- How to Think About the Type of PM You Want to Be ---

-: Hey everyone.
So we know now
that there's a few different types
of product management roles
and each one of these sometimes differs
in the types of work that they do,
and so it makes sense that different personality types
might gravitate towards
see these different product management roles.
Let's talk a little bit about that right now.
First, the internal product manager.
Due to the fact that you're building tools and products
for people within your own company
and your stakeholders are all internal,
this type of role is great
for people that might be starting out
in the role of product management.
This role also allows you to learn a lot about technology
because usually you'll be making tools
that integrate with other internal systems
or third party tools
like marketing software, CRMs,
that sort of thing.
In the internal product management role
you'll be doing a lot of project management
and you'll have a lot less risk
of losing the company big money
if you make a mistake or a feature is buggy.
This is because you're not building for millions,
you're building only for the people that you work with,
people in marketing and sales
and these types of departments.
Now, how about the business to business,
or software as a service product manager?
Just like the internal product manager,
this is also a good introduction role
to the role of product management.
Part of this is because
you usually have a much, much smaller number of users
to build for,
not as few as the internal tools role,
but much less than the consumer product manager role.
This is because business to business companies
are usually selling pretty expensive software
to only several hundreds or thousands of companies
and not millions or tens of millions of users
around the world.
This type of product role
lets you be a little bit more flexible and creative
in how you build things,
but not necessarily as flexible on what you're building
because oftentimes priorities are weighted heavily
by the sales team
and how much money a certain feature will bring in.
You'll also probably be building on tighter deadlines
because sales deals
often have deadlines associated with them.
Both this role and the internal product manager role
have a higher likelihood of you being responsible
for a product or a feature on one or very few platforms,
which is unlike the next role.
So our third one, the B to C,
or business to consumer product management role.
This is a role that is good for people
who don't mind uncertainty and a lot of pressure.
It is one of the most challenging product roles
in the product management world
because you're often building for millions of users
and usually have the product on multiple platforms
like Web, iOS, and Android.
You can also lose the company a lot of money
if something breaks.
So if you and your team release a feature
that is full of bugs
and it causes tens of thousands of users
to lose time on the app
or not be able to use it until you update it
in the next release cycle,
that is some big problems.
On top of these pressures,
you have to do extensive user testing.
You have to continually look over feedback from users
and it's never quite certain what you should build next.
You have to iterate and test in a very agile way
to get the features that you need to build.
Like I said, the business to consumer product role
is not an easy one,
but then again, it is one where you will learn a lot.
And because you're building on multiple platforms,
like I mentioned,
you're gonna learn about all sorts of stuff
from web development all the way to mobile development.
So what I want you to do is go ahead,
take a moment and write to your fellow classmates
in the area below
about what type of product manager
you think fits your working style best,
or what type of product manager you think
you would like to be in the future.
And if you're already a product manager
then write about the type of role that you have.
All right, everyone,
I'm looking forward to seeing your comments down below
and I'll see you in the next lecture.


=== Building the Product - Project Management for PMs ===


--- Product vs. Project Management ---

-: Hey everyone, welcome back.
So you might be wondering to yourself,
what is the difference
between product and project management?
Believe it or not, there are a lot of people out there
that think these things are one and the same.
In fact, they are not.
The roles, that is the job titles
of product manager and project manager,
are very, very different.
However, project management as a skill
is definitely something you will still need
as a product manager.
So let's dive right in,
and talk about the differences between these two.
We already know that product managers are responsible
for the success of a product.
But are they accountable, and what does success mean?
Well, success is defined by KPIs or metrics.
A product manager is responsible
for being successful by reaching certain metrics.
And don't worry too much about that right now,
we're gonna have a whole section on metrics later.
So anyways, PMs have a metrics goal that means success,
and they need to reach that goal.
And the method by which they reach that goal is not defined,
it is totally up to them and their team
to decide how they want to achieve that goal.
I'll give you an example here.
Let's say I run an e-commerce company,
and I hire you as a product manager.
I tell you that I want to increase checkout conversion
percent by 10% this quarter.
You can go off and do user research,
look at all the data,
and any of number of other things
that you might want to do to decide
how you're going to approach solving that problem
or reaching that goal.
Okay, so you might decide to redesign the checkout process
because users don't understand it,
or maybe decide to put in faster servers
because the site is a little bit slow,
and you find out that it being so slow
drops the conversion percentage,
because so many people leave before they check out.
No matter which of these approaches you pick,
you succeed because you get that 10%.
However, as you probably already know,
one of these approaches is going to be better
than the other.
That all depends on the upfront research and user testing
that you do with you and your designer
and the rest of your team.
Okay, so how about a project manager?
Well, a project manager is different because they are simply
responsible for accomplishing a project, not a goal.
And a project usually has a timeline and a budget
as a constraint.
Project managers are extremely important for rigid things,
like let's say, building a skyscraper.
If I'm the CEO of a construction company
and I hired a project manager to build a skyscraper,
I would hunt to hire a very good project manager
to get the job done on time, on budget.
And I want to know that that person knows how to best react
to things like weather delays or supply shortages
or that sort of thing.
What I would not want in this instance
is someone that's acting like a product manager
and saying that I want to build a building
that's a hundred stories tall and holds 10,000 people.
And then the product manager can kind of do it
however they feel like they're gonna accomplish that goal.
Because again product managers and their teams
are doing a lot of experimenting to see what will work best.
And you definitely don't want to be experimenting
when you're building a skyscraper.
You want to know for sure that the way
you plan to do it is going to work.
Now, like I said before, as a product manager,
you definitely need to know the skill of project management,
because on the front end you are collecting requirements
and ideas and defining potential future initiatives.
And then you're actually putting
those things into development.
You go into execution mode with your team.
At that point, you do need to know how
to project manage things, at least in a software sense.
Don't worry though, later in the course
we talk about project management
and we have several lectures that go through
the various components of project management,
as a product manager working in a software world.
Now, one thing I wanna say is that project managers
aren't totally useless in software.
In fact, there's a lot of things
that they're useful for outside of building skyscrapers
and bridges and that sort of thing.
Can you think of any types of software engineering projects
where project managers are completely necessary?
How about when two tech companies combined together
and they wanna merge their technology platforms?
That's already kind of known how this is gonna work,
how they're gonna merge together.
Otherwise the companies probably
wouldn't have merged in the first place.
But there's so many moving pieces here
that someone needs to be checking in constantly
and making sure that things are happening on time.
Here's another example where project management is a little
more prominent and maybe useful than product management.
Take for instance, an agency, like a software consulting
agency or an ad agency or something.
Clients will come up to them and say,
we want you to make a campaign,
or we want you to make a particular piece of software.
And kind of everything is defined on what needs to be built.
So then it becomes, again, that execution mode
where the project manager really just needs to make sure
everything is executed on budget, on time,
and there's not a lot of experimenting
to try to do things differently or reach a particular goal.
Okay, so that wasn't so hard, was it?
There's a really big difference between product management
and project management, and we know that there
is some project management inside the role
of product management.
But as far as careers go and having those titles
as a profession, they're two completely separate things.
Brief recap.
Product managers are responsible
for accomplishing a goal by any means
they feel will be best after they consult
and collaborate with their team
and do user research and all sorts of stuff like that.
And project managers are responsible
for accomplishing a set of things,
which is usually do these requirements on this project
either in a physical world, like a bridge, or a building,
or on big pieces of software.
And then do it within this timeframe and on this budget.
Okay, so I will see you guys in the next lecture.


=== Working with People and Stakeholders ===


--- A Day in the Life ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hey everyone
welcome back.
I wanted to give you a really quick taste
of what the day to day activities are for a product manager.
So we're gonna go hour by hour
through my typical day at the office.
So I get to the office at about 9:00 AM
and the first thing you do is check emails
and technology news.
Keeping up with the industry
is really important as a product manager.
Some places that I go to keep
up with the latest tech news are places
like techmeme.com, Hacker News,
Launch Ticker, Product Hunt,
and I'll even type my company name
into Twitter and just see what people are saying
about our latest features.
About an hour later at 10:00 AM
I go look at our team's metrics dashboard,
and I really look for any weird behavior
against our release logs.
So if something's going weird in the metrics
in a direction we don't think is optimal,
then what we do is we just look at
what happened with the releases lately
and try to track down the reason
that that metric is being affected.
At this point, I'll also go and check out customer feedback
from emails to support our community operations team.
I'll look at our app store reviews to see what
people are saying about a recent release we've made,
and I'll even go hang out in our beta forum
for a bit to see what sorts of issues people are having,
or if they have any feedback for us.
About an hour later at 11:00 AM
we have our team standup meeting.
So our team gets together and we look at our sprint board
and our backlog, and then each of us says what we're working
on at the time, what we recently completed, and
if there's any blockers, or if we need help with anything.
I also try to make it a point to tell our team,
the engineers and designers that work with me,
what metrics look like lately, you know
that morning if they're looking good or bad
and if there's any interesting things people are saying
in terms of the product feedback.
This is especially if we've had a recent release
from our team and everyone's excited to see, you know
how the users are liking it.
So the standup goes until about 11:15 AM,
because it's only a 10, 15 minute meeting.
After that, I talk with the team designer
about our user problems and the latest feedback.
We may even go to the whiteboard to sketch
out some solutions that we might be thinking about,
or just work on things we've already been brainstorming
over the last week or a few days.
So at about noon, 12 o'clock,
if we're planning any upcoming features
I'll take some time to write specs,
tickets and user stories, and insert requirements
or wire frames from the designer into those tickets.
At 1:00 PM depending on the day.
I usually take a little bit of time
to test the latest mobile release for our feature.
This is known as the alpha release.
This comes before beta, and we'll talk more
about this in a little bit later in the course.
So I test this on Android and IOS
on these two test devices I have,
and then our designer helps with this as well,
and both he and I report our bugs
and issues that we found
during testing into a new ticket inside of Jira,
our product management tool.
So from 2:00 PM and onwards,
the stuff I do changes drastically from day to day.
So here's a few things I may do depending
on the day and what's going on
in the rest of the company.
If it's a Monday, then I meet
with the team to do sprint planning, or sprint grooming,
or a retrospective on the last sprint.
On most days, it's likely
that all attend meetings with other product managers,
or stakeholders to work on cross team planning,
or get a feature cleared from other stakeholders.
Example of this would be to meet
with a sales team and tell them that something is changing.
Some other random frequent happenings that are sprinkled
throughout the week are things like,
meeting with our data science team
to discuss the recent tests that we ran
and look at exploratory data
from user behavior to help my designer and myself come
up with the right solutions for the next iteration.
I also might attend some user tests
of our new features, or present metrics, milestones
to executives and investors, or other product managers.
Sometimes work with a team
to present a recent accomplishment to the company.
We do this on Fridays to the company.
Everyone gets to demo kind of what they've done.
Our team will also hold open houses
to ensure that everyone
in the company has the ability to talk to our team
and align around any questions or feedback
that they have for us.
I also meet a lot with new employees
on product vision and direction to orient them.
This is really important to make sure that all
of the new employees coming in understand what
each component of the product does
and which teams are responsible for what.
So as you can see, there's really not a typical day
as a product manager, and it's never dull.
The days are always dynamic, but some things
like checking industry news, and your metrics,
and meeting with your own team never change.
I'll see you all in the next video.


=== Technology for Product Managers ===


--- Why Product Management is Awesome ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back.
I'm gonna talk to you a little bit about
why product management is such an awesome thing to learn
and why you should be so excited about taking this course.
Product management is easily one of the coolest
and most fun positions you could have at a tech company
or really any other company for that matter.
Why? Product managers are communications hubs
and jacks of all trades.
It's their job to know about a lot of things
and sometimes a huge amount
about very certain areas
depending on what you're working on.
Product managers also get to directly
affect every single part of the business
and they interact with every key person on every team
from marketing, to sales, to legal, and engineering,
and even design, all the way up to executives,
and oftentimes the investors or the board members.
To top it all off,
product managers have incredible career potential
and even get paid the same as engineers
in the tech industry.
The topic of product management is a very big one.
It's not nearly as cut and dry as many other subjects.
This is a long course,
simply because the topic is a big one,
and I wanna make sure that you understand
as much as possible.
After you finish this course,
you'll have a very solid understanding
of product management as a whole,
the different types of product management,
the specifics of product management,
the day-to-day activities of product manager,
and the ins and outs of metrics, different technologies,
how to communicate with various people around the company
including engineers, designers, and executives.
And we'll even help you out with your job search,
your resume, and the interview,
if you're looking to get your first job
as a product manager.
By the end of the course, whether you're an entrepreneur
an aspiring product manager,
or a current product manager
that is simply looking to get more skill,
you'll have the tools you need to push your career
to the next level.


=== What You Should Do to Prepare Yourself for the Job ===


--- Hooray for free stuff! ---

(elevator music)
-: Hey guys, welcome back.
This is not really a real lecture.
We just wanna talk about all the free stuff
that is coming to you from this course.
We really worked hard to put
together things that would be really valuable
to the students that wanna become product managers
and just wanna learn this discipline.
We're excited about two main ones,
but check out the resource section.
Whole list of stuff:
softwares, you know, free trials,
extended trials, resource guides, cheat sheets.
We have a lot of stuff in there.
Check it out.
But the two ones that I wanna talk about
that you guys can start using immediately
are the Slack chat.
-: Yeah, so the Slack chat is basically
we created a Slack room, where,
or a Slack group where you can plug in
and you can get into a group of people
that have taken this course
or that are actively taking this course
including myself and Evan.
So this is a real life,
on-the-fly sort of chat where you can come in
share resources, things you've read,
videos you've watched, ask questions,
have other people answer them.
And you know, Evan and myself will also be
in there answering questions
and passing along resources
-: Right? So check out the resources, guys.
Lots of cool stuff in there.
Post any comments if you have any confusion,
anything like that.
Otherwise, see you in the next lecture
and we're getting started soon.
-: All right, Excited.
We'll see you guys in the next area.


=== How to Look for a Job in Product Management ===


--- Q&A Section 2: SQL, Service Businesses, and All About Being a PM ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== How to Get the Job in Product Management ===


--- Section 2: Review & Recap ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== After You've Got the Job ===


--- The Four Major Phases of the Product Lifecycle ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hey, what's up?
So before we jump into product development,
it's important to understand the market stages
that products and companies go through
on a macro level, a zoomed-out level first.
This is what we call the product life cycle.
♪ It's the circle of life ♪
Once a company has started
or once they have developed a new product
there are four stages
that that product or that company go through.
The four are introduction, growth,
maturity, and then decline.
Products and companies progress
through these stages of development
and the way that you know which stage they're in
is how much revenue they're making over time.
Also, some other things
like how fast the revenue is growing,
and what their monthly recurring revenue is.
So let's talk about
each one of these four phases really quickly.
The introduction phase, first of all.
This is when a company
first introduces a product to the market,
usually, the product will have little
to no competition in the market.
At this phase of the life cycle,
the business typically loses money on the item
and the only people that are buying it,
like immediately are the early adopter types.
The second phase is the growth phase.
And at this point,
the product has been accepted by the marketplace
and sales start to rise.
Usually, again, starting from the tail end
of those early adopter users.
The organization may choose
to create improvements to the item
to stay competitive,
and at this point,
they're usually still few challengers
out there in the marketplace
trying to compete with them.
So then we have the third phase, maturity.
In the maturity stage of the product life cycle
sales will reach their pinnacle.
The other competitors enter the market
with alternative solutions at this point
because it's so attractive
and they start making a lot of competition
in the marketplace, it gets pretty crazy.
The company that introduced this new product
may start to find it pretty difficult to compete
with everyone else in the industry.
Lastly, we have the decline phase,
and at this phase of the product life cycle,
as merchandise, and products, and the company,
just reach its saturation point
that sales begin to diminish.
And remember, we have all of that competition out there.
Most products are phased out from the marketplace
right about this time
because of the drop in sales
and all of the competitive pressure.
The marketplace sees this item and says,
"Okay, this is no longer new and great,
It's a little bit old, not very relevant anymore."
Now it's important to know
that depending on the product or the industry,
this stuff might shift a little bit.
It's also really important to mention
that there's no definitive guide to telling
where a company or product is within these phases.
It's really just a way of thinking, a framework
so that we can understand how companies
and products begin and end.
So, we've named these four phases.
You've got introduction, growth, maturity, and decline.
Can you think of some real-life companies
in each one of these phases?
We're gonna take a look
at some of these real-life examples in the next lecture.


=== Extended Interviews with Current Product Managers ===


--- [ACTIVITY] Six Products Four Phases - Can you guess which? ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Bonus Section ===


--- Product Lifecycle Phases: Real World Examples ---

-: Hey everyone.
So I wanted to give you a couple of quick real life examples
of products that are in the product life cycle
in a couple of the different stages.
So remember, we have introduction,
growth, maturity, and decline.
So let's go ahead and take a look at my web browser here
and we'll look at a couple of these products.
So this would be a product that
is in the introduction phase, and that is because
it is really, really early in the market.
It's something I found the other day
called the Dreem by Rythm.
It says website rythm.co.
It's basically some kind of sleep wearable
that helps you get better sleep.
But the real telltale here
is that it's not quite launched to the absolute public
but it is available to be bought by early adopters.
So if you click apply now,
they've got this first version coming out here very soon.
So this is something that is in the introductory phase
and there's really no doubt about it.
There's a lot of ways to find companies like this.
You can go on places like TechCrunch or Product Hunt
and check out companies or products
that are just now starting.
So now let's check out a product
that is in the growth phase.
All right, so my example for a growth product is Snapchat
and most people know what Snapchat is, but if you don't,
it's a little bit of a picture-based social network
that's been growing pretty quickly.
It's only a couple years old, but it's still in growth.
And this is their website, which doesn't show you much
but you can see the app there.
But real telltale here is if you go to Google Trends.
So let's type in Snapchat into Google Trends
and we can see over time, the interest is just skyrocketing
and it's really showing no signs of slowing down
and they're beginning to make money.
So they're really, really in this growth phase
and there's a lot of people that are starting
to look to compete with them at this point.
All right, so let's take a look at a product
that is in the maturity phase.
How about Twitter?
This is something we've talked about a little bit
in terms of the company,
but Twitter's having some struggles with their growth.
A lot of people think it's in the mature phase
because their product is becoming a little bit more
difficult to use for the mainstream audience.
And if we just Google some stats on them,
we can get articles like this,
saying that their growth over time is really stagnating.
This graph right here,
shows that we're getting a little bit of a plateau here.
16, 16, 18, 18 and then 19.
It's not really growing like it did back in the day,
from eight to 12 and 10 to 13.
So Twitter is definitely a company
that is in the maturity phase,
and unless they can do something really amazing
to their product, it's probably going to stay that way
and maybe even go into decline.
So let's take a look at example
for something that's in the decline phase.
How about Yahoo?
Yahoo is a really old company actually,
and they've been a decline for a while,
but it's getting really bad lately.
If you've looked at some of the articles about them lately,
you can see ones like this,
hedge funds are dumping their stock.
You do this with just a simple Google search
or go to Google Finance, and you get stuff like this
where we can back off the last five years
and check out their revenues and their stock price.
And it's definitely on the way down.
There's even talks of them selling
a piece of their business, at this point.
So just using Google and looking up products or companies
is a really great way to feel out
where they are in the product life cycle.
Like I said before, there's really no definitive guide
to where a company is in particular, right in the cycle,
but you need to understand really how companies
go through these cycles and they try to stop from declining.
All right, makes sense.
So we've got those four major phases of the cycle
and you can just do some internet research
and get a really good idea
of where companies are at that point.
I'll see you in the next lecture.

--- The Product Development Process ---

(upbeat intro music)
-: Hey there.
So, now we understand how larger products
and companies start, grow,
and then eventually mature and decline.
Let's talk about products themselves
on a smaller scale.
Every product that is being developed
has a series of steps that they go through.
We call this the product development process.
Sometimes, you'll hear it be called
the product development process, life cycle,
or product development life cycle,
but it's the process that products
go through when they're being developed.
So, there are seven main phases
to this product development process.
They are:
conceive,
plan,
develop,
iterate,
launch,
then steady state,
and then finally,
we either maintain or kill the product.
We're gonna talk about the first four in this lecture,
and we'll talk about the rest in the next lecture.
So, the first phase, conceive.
This is the phase where we collect user problems
We brainstorm solutions.
We're saying, "All right, we wanna make a product,
but we want to figure out what we should make."
We identify the focus areas we wanna work on.
The biggest source of ideas for this phase is
usually inside of a company
from the employees of that company themselves.
Phase number two, plan.
In this phase, we do market research.
So, we've already got our ideas
and we do the research on those ideas.
We look at the business case.
Is this something that's gonna make us money?
We do customer interviews,
and see if people will find this to be a problem.
We also roadmap out what we think we could make,
how long it might take, and at what points
we should have particular features
if we're actually gonna do this.
So, we move on to the next phase.
The third phase is develop.
This is where we get our hands dirty.
So, we want to make timelines,
and we want to write out features
that we're gonna have in this product.
We're gonna make our user stories and our specs,
and we're gonna talk to development
about estimations on very specific details
of how long will this particular thing need
to take to be developed.
By the time we begin developing,
the requirements should be set,
and they really shouldn't change
until we get some sort of validation
on the early parts of the completed product,
our MVP, which we'll talk about a little bit later.
Then, we move on to the fourth phase, iterate.
So, this is when we finish the MVP,
our very early prototype,
or the early minimum viable product
of this new product we're developing.
We get early feedback from users.
We test the assumptions that we made
with the original idea for the product.
We don't wait until we are all the way done,
because we want to get the testing
in as early as possible from the users.
So, we use tools like having an Alpha and a Beta.
You've probably seen these sorts of things out there,
where you can join Beta programs for software.
This is because these things are not complete,
and they wanna make sure they're heading
in the right direction before they do a full launch.
Again, those first four phases,
conceive,
plan,
develop,
iterate,
and we're gonna talk about
the next three major phases
of the product development process
in the next lecture.
I will see you there.

--- Getting Deeper Into the Product Development Process ---

-: All right, so in the last lecture,
we discussed the first four phases
of the product development process.
That company conceives of a new product,
they plan it out, they develop it,
and then they iterate on it before you even launch it.
And you do this using the early test feedback
or the alphas and the betas
and there's a few other types of things
we can do to get that feedback.
But after that's done,
we wanna do three more things.
We want to launch, then we wanna hold it
in a steady state, and then, after that,
we decide if we wanna maintain it
or we kill the product.
So let's talk about launch.
(explosion)
Controller: Liftoff, we have a liftoff.
-: We want to work with the marketing team
and the legal team, the PR team,
the sales team.
And we wanna position this product
for public launch.
Then, we actually send it out there
to the public, we see what kind of reaction we get.
And the sixth major phase is called steady state
or just basically hold it in either a steady state
or continue iterating on it.
(dramatic music)
(yelling)
-: Steady.
(dramatic music)
(people yelling and horse hooves clopping)
Hold.
(dramatic music)
-: During this time,
we're collecting metrics on how people are using it,
how often are people buying it.
We analyze the product and we optimize our metrics,
we try to get the maximum return for our investment
on it.
During this time, we also have marketing
continuing to market it
and sales people continuing to sell it.
We assess our continued efforts here
to basically see how likely are we
to continue moving forward with this.
Then, we move on to the seventh and final phase
of the product development process, maintain or kill.
At this point, we decide,
using all the data we've already gathered,
and especially from the last phase
how frequently are people purchasing this,
are we staying on top of the market,
are we competitive with this product anymore.
And we look at, more importantly,
how much money are we spending to maintain it,
to see is it even paying for itself?
How's our return on investment?
If it's not doing so well,
then maybe we decide to kill it
and we decide to move onto something new.
(beeping)
-: I'm gonna disconnect your air machine.
(air hissing)
And you're gonna go to sleep.
-: And one thing that's important to mention here
is that it may not have anything to do with the revenue
of that product or maybe even the usage.
It could just not fit our company vision anymore.
Our executives and the people that are leading the company
might decide just based on market circumstance
that the company is now going in a different direction
so we need to go ahead and cut our losses on that product
or go ahead and put it to bed.
-: It's not you, it's me.
-: You're giving me the "it's not you, it's me" routine?
(audience laughs)
I invented "it's not you, it's me." (audience laughs)
-: If we decide to kill the product,
then we do what's called sunsetting.
You've probably heard this before.
This is a slow transition to the end of life
of the product.
We message our user base,
we tell them what's going on,
and we have an end of life plan for the users
and the people that may rely on it.
So if we have a company or a product
that is storing data for people, for instance,
then we may allow them to back up their data
before we shut down the product.
Everyone has probably seen a product that they love to use,
you know, be killed, and it's always very sad
but unfortunately, sometimes there's not much
you can do about it.
But I have had a lot of good experiences
with products that are dying
and being killed out but they still allow you
to bring out your data and something like that.
This is really good practice.
All right, so those are the seven main phases:
conceive, plan, develop, iterate, launch, steady state,
and then finally, we maintain it or kill it.
One thing to mention here
is that this might sound a little bit academic to you
but it is because it is actually pretty academic.
You know, this is a process
that every product goes through
but you're not gonna be actually using these terms,
you know, in the office every day.
It's just very important as a product manager
to understand that every type of product or company
goes through these types of phases.
And there's things to consider about each.
So without any further ado,
let's go on to the next section.
I will see you there.
(jolly music)
(jolly music continues)

--- What is "Lean Product Development"? ---

(upbeat music)
-: So what is Lean?
Well Lean is a product development philosophy
that revolves around cutting out all of the unnecessary work
or effort until you're absolutely sure you need to do it
for your users or customers.
Let's say I have an idea for a food delivery business
where someone can just text on their phone,
their order to a cell phone number
and we bring 'em the food, like that.
What would you need to make this business a reality?
Seriously, put yourself in the position
of someone that's going to be starting this business
and think about what you would need
to get it to be a real thing.
Normally, we'd incorporate, we'd hire some drivers,
we would build a website,
we would put out some advertisements,
and we would buy a cell phone number
for people to text for the food.
So to better use resources here
I could have done some work up front myself,
by doing things like
having people text my own cell phone number,
or putting out flyers myself,
or driving the food to people's houses myself,
once I got a text message.
This would require a lot more work for me up front
but it guarantees that I'm not spending money
on stuff until I know I actually have to.
So at the point that I get enough business
where I can no longer do these things myself,
where I can no longer drive to the people's houses myself,
or take the orders myself, then I start hiring the drivers.
This is a Lean approach.
So Lean is really just about building something
in an intelligent way where I'm not using the resources
until I know I actually have to.
And this way we save a ton of money.
Lean is not specifically for software, though.
There is a process called Agile
that is specifically for software.
But I do recommend reading more about Lean
and if you'd like, there's a whole book on the topic
called "Lean Startup" by Eric Ries,
and it looks a lot like that.
So in the next lecture we're gonna talk about Agile.

--- What is "Agile"? ---

-: So we know that Lean is a way
of building a product or business without wasting resources,
without spending the money until we have to.
But what is Agile?
Aren't they the same thing?
Well, a little bit.
In this lecture we're gonna talk
about Agile and why it's so important
for a product manager to understand.
So, what is Agile?
Well, it's pretty easy.
Agile is just a way
of applying that Lean mindset to software development.
And agile, as you know, is an adjective.
You can say something is agile, but when people, especially
in the software or tech industry, say the word agile
they're usually meaning Agile software development.
Which is just a sort
of a project management framework for software development.
Agile is an iterative method
to developing software where we group things
into small batches and do them
in order to not waste resources.
So, let's imagine that you are writing
down the features that you think an app should have.
So, you're making an app, write 10 features down
and you think these are absolutely necessary
for the users to want your app.
If we are doing this in an Agile way
we would probably only research and develop the
first two to five features that we think are most important.
So, we would take those features
we say these are the most important ones.
We design them, you know, we research 'em, we develop 'em
we release them, and we see what the user feedback is
on those three to five features
before we go on and develop the rest of the features.
In next lecture, we're gonna talk
about two very specific frameworks inside
of the agile development process called Kanban and Scrum.
All right, see you next lecture.

--- What is "Scrum" and How Does it Work? ---

-: Welcome back, everyone.
In this lecture, we're gonna talk about Scrum and Kanban,
which are two agile development philosophies or frameworks.
So we know now that agile is a philosophy
for developing software in a lean and iterative way
with plenty of collaboration between the team members,
but what are the guidelines for putting it in place,
how does it actually look?
There are two very popular
agile software development methodologies or structures,
one is called Scrum,
which you've probably heard of before,
and the other is called Kanban.
Some people pronounce it Kanban, but whatever.
You can think of both of these methods
as merely guides to developing software in an agile way.
So let's start with Scrum.
It's probably the most common of the two.
Let's walk through how to implement it
or what it looks like in four easy steps.
Now, there are a lot of things about Scrum
but these are the four main ones.
Step one, the sprint planning meeting.
So you start off with a product backlog,
which is a big prioritized list
of all the things you've either decided to work on
or may work on.
Your team holds a sprint planning meeting,
which is where you take the most important feature
or several,
from the top of your product backlog
and you move it to your sprint backlog.
Then you talk about all the work you're going to need to do
in order to implement it.
Together, your team writes out what work needs to be done
in order to make that feature a reality.
You put the work into a project management software
into things called tickets.
Step two, this is where you start developing.
The core tenet of Scrum
is that the work your team does
is boxed into a timeframe called a sprint,
usually two weeks.
Some companies do three week sprints and some do four,
but two is the most common.
Throughout the two weeks,
your team works on the things
by taking them off the top of the sprint backlog
and moving them to in progress
and then eventually to done.
These are the tickets that they're moving
from column to column.
At the end of the two weeks,
you should have completed everything in the sprint backlog.
If not, those things go to the next sprint.
So step three is standup meetings,
and these are very common and very helpful.
Standup meetings are these small daily meetings
usually hold in the mornings.
Why are they called standup meetings?
Well, the theory here
is that if you remain standing as a team
and you're not sitting down,
then the meeting will be very brief
and just concise in general.
And we find that to be pretty true.
So the goal of the standup meeting
is for every team member to talk about
what they worked on last,
what they're working on now,
and then what they're gonna work on next.
Most importantly,
they should bring up any questions or requests for help
during the standup meeting.
These daily meetings, usually every morning again,
keep everything moving really smoothly.
So step four and another big component of implementing Scrum
is retrospective meetings.
A retrospective is kind of the opposite
of a sprint planning meeting.
The retrospective is a meeting you have
at the end of each sprint with your team.
You get everyone in a room,
yourself, the developers, the designers, et cetera,
and you talk about three main things
about the last sprint,
what went well,
what did not go well,
and what questions people have.
It's usually your job as the product manager
to lead the team through this.
These meetings ensure that everyone
that has questions or concerns about the team
or the structure or your process
is getting these things heard,
and it keeps everything moving along very smoothly.
All right, so let's recap on Scrum
and the big four major components.
The first one is that we have a sprint planning meeting
where we take everything from the product backlog,
we put it in the sprint backlog.
Secondly, we have the sprint itself,
which is a time box period of time,
like two weeks, three weeks, or four,
but the most common is two.
Then we have the daily standup meetings during the sprint.
These are 10 or 15 minute meetings
where we keep standing up
so that people don't take too long
and we just talk about what you're doing yesterday,
what you're doing today,
and what you're doing tomorrow
and clarify any issues or any collaboration needed.
Finally, we have the retrospective meeting
where we talk about what went well during the sprint,
what did not go well,
and any outstanding questions that people have.
All right, everyone.
We'll see you in the next lecture.

--- What is "Kanban" and How Does it Work? ---

(upbeat music)
-: What is up, everybody?
So what's Kanban and how does it compare to Scrum?
By the way, is it Kanban or Kanban?
I'm almost positive it's Kanban,
but if I am wrong, tweet at me or something.
So like Scrum, Kanban is just a framework
for implementing Agile software development
except it's not as strict as Scrum
in terms of meetings and times.
So you may have actually seen what's referred to
as a Kanban board before.
It's just a bunch of columns with cards on it
that you can move from one column to the other one
to reflect a state of that item
like to do, in progress, and then done.
However, just because something has a Kanban style board
does not mean that that is the Kanban process.
Instead, the key concepts with Kanban are
that it does not use sprints.
So you don't time box the work of your team
into these two or four-week periods.
Also, since there's no sprints, there's no sprint backlog,
which we'll learn about,
but only the product backlog itself.
So what happens is the team just works on their tickets,
they do the work, they move it to done,
and then they take the next task
off the top of the product backlog
and that backlog just goes on forever.
It's just endless.
Kanban is also different from Scrum
in that it does not prescribe any particular meeting types
like Scrum does with standup meetings,
and sprint planning meetings,
and retrospective meetings.
And there's one more big difference.
Kanban operates off of the theory
that only a certain amount of items can be in progress
or in any given state at one time.
How many items can be in each particular state
is up for you and your team to decide.
Some software teams use Kanban,
but it tends to work best with teams
that are not very concerned with things like estimation
and are continuously moving tasks
through the same number of steps pretty quickly
until they're complete.
For instance, customer service teams
often use a Kanban style of working.
All right, so we are familiar with Scrum and Kanban.
Then the big question is, which one is best?
Sorry to disappoint you
but there's no definitive answer here
as it depends on what your team prefers to use.
The best process is the one that you like using.
As you can tell,
Kanban is a more relaxed way of doing Agile development
but it has a big disadvantage.
Since it doesn't use sprints
it's going to be more difficult
to project the amount of time
it's going to take to complete work.
Don't worry too much about that right now
'cause we're going to talk about things
like estimations and velocity in a later lecture.
So let's recap.
Kanban is just another way to implement
an Agile type of software development workflow.
It's a little less prescriptive than Scrum
and it does not use sprints.
All right, everybody.
I will see you in the next lecture.

--- What is Waterfall Development? ---

-: In the Agile app example,
we took those 10 features we thought we wanted
and we only selected a few that we thought
were the most important.
And we took those and we researched them,
designed them, developed them, and then released them
and validated whether or not those were the things
that users were interested in.
Waterfall looks a little bit more something like this.
We take all 10 of those features that we think we want,
and we develop them all at the same time.
So we research, design, develop,
and release every single one of them all at once.
Doing things in a waterfall way
is sometimes pretty risky,
because your software product might have a ton of features
and when you have a ton of features,
it's going to take a long time to develop them all at once.
During that time, your competitors may do something,
or you may find something else about the user needs,
or market that makes it much harder to adapt.
You also might find that after you've developed it,
your users wanted something else
that you've spent little time on,
and you spent the most time on stuff
that they're not actually gonna be using.
So after all of this trash talking on waterfall development,
you might be thinking, when is it ever useful?
Well, there's actually a few specific use cases
where waterfall development is pretty useful,
and we're gonna talk about those in the next lecture.

--- Real World Examples of Waterfall and Agile ---

-: In the last lecture, we learned
that Agile software development is a methodology
for applying that lean mindset
to software development inside a company.
So what does it look like when we actually apply it
inside a development environment?
What does it look like day-to-day?
Let's say we work at a music streaming company
and we've identified that the most important thing
to our users is to have a ability to build a playlist.
So using the Agile development methodology,
we can get everyone in a room, the engineers,
the designers, and us, the product managers,
and we can decide on the very core features
of building a playlist and what that entails.
So if we talk to the designers and engineers
we can be pretty certain that the most basic requirement
for building playlist functionality
is going to be adding a bunch of tracks,
or songs to a list called a playlist.
With this knowledge, the engineers can go ahead
and start developing the database that we know
we'll need to build the playlist functionality.
In the meantime, the designer and us,
the product managers, can get together and start talking
about how will the playlists act, and how will they look
and how will they feel inside of the app?
So us, the product managers, and the designers can go off
and wireframe some potential designs.
The designers can make 'em look really nice.
We can test 'em with users and we can
make changes based on user feedback.
We can do this process a couple of times
while the engineers are working on the database.
By the time we've got the perfect design,
and look and feel ready, the engineers can put it inside
of the app because they're done with the database.
So now, with the engineers done
with the backend and the database they start implementing
the actual playlist functionality in the app.
Then, the product manager and the designer can go on
and start talking to users about
the next features they should build
and then start doing the entire process over.
So while the engineers are actually implementing
this feature into the app, the product manager, us,
and the designers can go talk to other users and look
at metrics to decide what feature we should build next.
Then, we go and do wireframes again and design
and we get some more feedback from users
and we just complete the cycle over again.
When companies use the Agile development methodology,
usually, everyone is in very close communication
and collaboration, engineers, designers
and product managers are usually, in the same room
or office and they're always talking.
So how about Waterfall, when is it useful
and what are some examples of it being a useful process?
Well, think about Microsoft Windows or Mac OS X,
which are operating systems for your computers.
These are operating systems that have literally thousands
of features, it would be really, really hard
to pick a couple of features that stand on their own.
All of these features have dependencies on others
and you really just release a few to the public.
Another example of Waterfall being a little bit more useful
than Agile is in mission critical software applications,
like braking, or engine control systems in cars.
Do you think that using Agile development
and developing only a few few features at a time
inside of a car for the braking systems is a good idea?
Definitely not.
Well, what about things outside of software?
Waterfall is used in other places where it's pretty useful.
Let's imagine we're building a skyscraper.
Do you think we'd wanna build five floors at a time
and then put a bunch of people
in it and see if it still stands?
Probably not, we're gonna build all 100 floors together
and we're gonna do it from a spec that we know
from the beginning has everything we need.
When the Waterfall software development process is used
the team does not collaborate quite as closely as the team
that's doing an Agile software development process.
You can have the research and product requirements team
in one city, the designers in another city and time zone,
and the developers in an entirely other city and time zone.
This is because everything is defined up front
and it gets passed from one team
to the other and nothing changes.
So I hope everyone has a pretty decent understanding
of the differences between Agile and Waterfall,
and what sorts of real world examples these are used in.
For your purposes as a product manager
it'll be focused mostly on Agile, but don't think
that Waterfall is completely useless because it's not.

--- Section 3: Review & Recap ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Introduction to Ideas and User Needs ---

-: What's up, everybody?
Everything in life has to start somewhere.
Now, I'm not gonna lecture you on philosophy
or something like that,
but when you're a product manager,
products also start somewhere.
And that means that features and new functionality,
it all comes from some place.
Everything that you see or use in your life, any product,
at one point it was either an idea in someone's head
or it was a need, like a requirement.
Someone said, "Hey, I need this team to build this for me."
And then they built it.
So, there's this theory out there that product managers
and executives, they all get in a room
and they're the idea people.
They just sit there and come up with these fantastic ideas,
and then the developers and the designers, you know,
make it look pretty and build it.
And then the executives get rich,
and that's actually so far from the truth,
I don't even want to go there.
Your job as a product manager is not to be the idea person.
We're gonna talk about that in a little bit,
but it's really just about getting this huge influx
of ideas and requirements from all over the place.
Requirements are other people coming up to you and saying,
"Hey, I need you to build this."
♪ Do you wanna build a snowman? ♪
-: Maybe a sales team or marketing team,
"Hey, we need this functionality," that sort of thing.
They have all of this stuff.
And your job is really just to say,
of all of these things, which ones are good ideas,
which ones are bad?
(alarm sounds)
(man crashes)
(extinguisher hisses)
Why are they good ideas?
And when is the best time to do them,
given all of the other stuff that's going on at the time
in the company, with technology, and in the industry?
Anyways, that's what this section is all about.
So, get ready to take a dive into the land of ideas,
and user needs, and false user needs,
and users thinking they need this thing
when they actually need this thing.
Anyways, I'm getting ahead of myself,
but this is all coming up, so I will see you in there.

--- Where Ideas Come From as a PM ---

-: What's up everybody?
In this lecture we're gonna talk
about where ideas come from as a product manager.
So as a product manager, your entire job revolves
around deciding what you need to do next.
This requires a list of possible features to build
and also a method
of deciding which of those is the most important.
Now, later on in the course
we're going to talk about
prioritization of features and epics
which you'll learn about, but for now,
we're just gonna need to focus
on getting that list of features in the first place.
So, where do ideas come from?
Where is the top of the funnel for the Product Manager
in terms of what you might build in the future?
Well, I wanna start by saying that any company you work
for as a Product Manager, is gonna have a long list
of requests, and feature ideas that need to be developed.
If this is not the case, then you should feel really lucky.
Even if you do have a really big list
of stuff that needs to be built,
there's always going to be instances where new ideas come
in and take precedence over existing ones
based on things like user feedback volume,
what the competition is doing, et cetera.
All right, So let's go ahead
and assume you're a Product Manager at a new company
and there's already a few things your company
says you need to build with your team,
but you also want to make sure there's plenty of other ideas
in the backlog to think about and develop after that.
Where do you get these ideas?
Despite popular belief, the Product Management job is not
about being the idea guy or idea girl.
Ideas and requests come from everywhere,
and you need to collect
and organize them as a Product Manager.
Feature ideas and requests usually come
from four main places that we can easily
remember using an acronym that is E M U C.
"EMUC"
So let's go through each one of those.
Let's start with "E", Employees.
This is just ideas coming in
from your coworkers, management, and you, yourself.
The second one is "M", and it stands for Metrics.
This is just problems
and inefficiencies you find when you're looking
into how users use your product.
For example, I may be looking at some data
on how users navigate through an app, and I might notice
that a lot of people just spend one second
on a particular area and immediately go somewhere else.
Well, that might give me the idea
that this is an unclear section of the app,
and we need to do some sort of redesign,
or, at least go figure
out what's going on, and then try to fix it.
All right, so now let's move on to "U",
which is Users.
This is user feedback from forums,
or emails to your company or yourself
and social media.
It's just everyone out there that uses your product.
So the last one is see "C", Clients
and this is a special case that applies primarily
to Product Managers that are
Business to Business,
because it's not always the case
that a User is the same as a Client,
a client meaning the person that paid for the product.
So, depending on what type of Product Manager you are,
the importance and volume of requests may change.
Do you remember the three types of Product Management roles?
Consumer Product Manager,
Internal Tools Product Manager,
and Business to Business Product Manager?
Let's do three examples really quickly
of the PM types and where the ideas might come from.
So if you're an Internal Product Manager,
most of the ideas are probably going to be coming
from your primary stakeholders,
which are your coworkers
and employees that you work with.
If you are a Business Consumer Product Manager,
most requests are probably going to come from the users,
but you should also look for problems in metrics, and listen
to new ideas from fellow coworkers, especially management.
Now, if you're a Business to Business Product Manager,
it means you're working
on a product that is being sold to other companies.
In this case, requests and ideas
for features are going to come primarily
from employees and clients.
Like I said, a User is not always the same
as a Customer or a Client.
If you're a Business to Business Product Manager,
but we will talk a little bit more about that later.
All right, let's sum it up really quick.
You're going to have ideas and feedback coming in
from all sorts of places,
depending on the type of Product Manager you are,
some of the volume of feedback is going to be different
from those different groups,
but you can remember these groups
by the acronym, "EMUK",
Employees, Metrics, Users, and Clients or Customers.
All right, everyone.
I will see you in the next lecture.
(upbeat music)

--- Getting to the Real User Needs ---

(upbeat music)
-: Welcome back, everyone.
So in the last lecture, we talked about all of the places
where you can receive user feedback and ideas.
Once we have this list of ideas or feature requests,
do we just go build them?
Let's say that a user has given you some feedback
and they want you to build a native mobile app
for your website, so you get that feedback,
and you just go out and build it, right?
No, being a product manager is about a lot more
than just learning a few skills and applying those skills.
One of the most important things
about being a product manager
is having a product manager mindset.
And a big component of that
is being able to understand the core pain points,
the real problems behind what people ask you to do.
So in this lecture, that's what we're gonna learn,
how to get that essential skill.
Let's start off with an example.
Let's say that I have a friend,
and I don't really have any friends
so this is an unrealistic example, but let's say that I do
and they're standing outside in the rain
and they're getting all wet.
And they're upset about being wet, and they say,
"Cole, can you give me a towel?"
And I give them a towel and they dry off
and they get dry for a few minutes
or maybe a few seconds and it's still raining,
so they keep getting wet.
Did I really solve their problem?
Well, of course not.
They asked for a towel, so that's what I gave them.
That was their request to me.
But is that the actual problem?
No, the actual problem here is that they're in the rain.
So the actual solution would be to get them out of the rain.
So I know that example sounds pretty ridiculous,
but this sort of thing happens all the time
in the world of product management.
People are always asking you to build things or add features
and those things, at first glance, seem reasonable,
but actually, they're merely symptoms
of a real problem the user is having behind the scenes.
Being a product manager
is all about finding a solution to a problem
instead of trying to fit a problem to a solution
that you or someone else has thought of in the first place.
Given any request or feature idea,
the first thing I want you to do is think to yourself,
"Is this solving an actual problem?"
The second thing I want you to do is ask yourself,
"If we do this exactly as they ask
without looking any deeper,
is it gonna have any unintended side effects?"
I'll give you an example of an unintended side effect.
Everyone's familiar with Twitter, right?
They've got several hundred million users.
The way Twitter works is you can type some characters
and send it out as a tweet
and that appears on your profile
and it also appears in a newsfeed
for everyone that follows you.
On Twitter, you can also retweet, which is clicking a button
on their tweet, and it puts it on your profile.
And all of that also feeds into the newsfeed.
So if you are following a ton of people,
then your newsfeed can understandably get pretty busy.
One of the most common things people ask for on Twitter
is the ability to just filter out retweets.
So the idea is that if the product managers
and developers at Twitter just made a button
to where you wouldn't see retweets on your timeline anymore,
it would make things a lot less messy.
Sounds pretty reasonable, right?
Now, Twitter as a business model
is a company that really just tries to show
everyone out there what is really popular right now.
So what are people around the world talking about?
Think about retweets for a moment.
When I retweet something, it's like saying,
"I really like this.
I endorse it.
I like it so much
that I'm willing to put it on my own profile."
So if we built this feature and it got pretty popular,
then we could have, say, 20 to 40% of people
not seeing retweets at all.
What ends up happening here is less and less people retweet
because there's not as large of an audience.
And then Twitter has less
of an idea what people really strongly like
or really strongly endorse.
This makes it even more difficult for them
to separate out signals on what's globally super popular.
This affects normal users as well.
So with less people retweeting,
it's more difficult for them to tell what is super popular
or what people really, really like.
So remember, the request here
was to allow us to filter out retweets
on the Twitter timeline,
and we've just covered that might not be the best idea
because it has some unintended consequences.
I'll give you example from my career of a feature request
that did not actually address the user problem.
A while ago, I was a product manager
at an e-commerce website, and we were working
on building a new content management system
for the marketing team
because they had outgrown the old one.
This is basically a system by which they can go
and edit the photos and the text and that sort of thing
on the website while the website is live.
So I'm meeting with the marketing team
and I'm writing down requirements and they're saying,
"We need it to do these things."
One of the things they mentioned was they said
they needed the ability to put up a small message
on a specific product webpage to tell the users something
and they wanted to be able to put that up
and take it down pretty quickly.
At that point, I could have said, "Okay,
I'll take that into account
and I'll make sure that whatever we do,
we'll give you that feature."
But instead what I did was ask them,
"What's behind this request?"
What do they actually want it to do?
So I asked why this was actually a requirement
and for what reason do they need this?
So it turns out that the merchandising department
told the marketing department to tell me
that this was a requirement, and the reason was,
it turns out, that they would hold sales
on particular product pages.
And on this shorts page in particular,
the sizing and pictures were a little bit misleading.
So when a lot of traffic went there,
it ends up that a lot of people left
because they were confused.
So what they wanted was a little,
basically a message where users would know
to call our customer service line to better understand it.
So after hearing all of this, it was pretty clear to me
that the real problem wasn't that they needed an ability
to put up a message really quickly for customers,
the real problem was that the page was extremely misleading
and causing problems in the first place.
So after hearing this,
I went back to the designers and developers
and told them about this and we went to the drawing board
and talked about how we might make this
a lot clearer for customers.
Once we had solved this on the webpage,
it was not really a problem anymore
for the merchandising department
and the customers didn't need to call
into customer service anymore.
So problem solved, but the real problem was solved,
not the initial idea or requirement
given to me by another team.
I wanna show you a really easy way to get to the core issue
of a request and see what the actual problem is.
And this is a technique that a lot of sales people use
and have for a really long time.
So it's really easy.
You just ask, "Why?"
But then you ask it two more times at least.
So if someone asks you to do something, you say, "Why?"
They'll tell you.
You say, "Why?" again, and they'll tell you
a reason that's a little bit closer to the truth.
And then you say, "Why?" again, and by the end of it,
they'll probably have illustrated to you
what the real pain point is.
It seems really obvious, but in fact, it's not,
and there are so many people
that just skip over this simple step.
Ask why.
I once took a sales class back after college,
it was really, really good.
And this guy that taught the course was in his early 50s.
He had done some of the best sales jobs in the world
and his number one piece of advice was to do this.
And this technique works
with product management just as well.
So in this lecture, we learned that
the product manager's job is not only to listen
to the request the person is giving us,
but to find the real pain behind the request.
What is the real reason they're asking for this?
We also learned that the easiest way
to get to that is to continually ask, "Why?"

--- [ACTIVITY]: Separating the Signal from the Noise ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Users vs. Customers ---

-: Welcome back, everyone.
So do you remember where I said that sometimes
the people that pay for your product
are not actually the users of your product?
We're gonna talk a little bit more
about that right now.
So there's a difference between
users and customers.
And if you work as a B2B,
or business-to-business product manager
this might actually be pretty common.
So, one of my first product management jobs
was at a company that sold
social media monitoring software
to companies that were interested
in identifying trends on social media.
So the company was called Mass Relevance,
and this product we sold,
the ability to log into a platform
and check out all these social media trends,
was something that cost like two to $500,000.
So it was not cheap.
So the people that bought this
were major companies,
and the people that signed the checks for this
were directors of marketing or social media,
and when they bought it
they were not the ones using it,
but they would give the logins
to their underlings,
like the social media managers
or the marketing managers,
and you can see how these
are two totally different people.
So when we were getting feedback,
we would get feedback from two different groups.
We'd get macro-level feedback
on what our products should be able to do
in general.
This was from the higher ups,
like the directors of marketing
and that sort of thing.
And then we had really granular feedback
from the users themselves.
These are the people
that were logged in every day.
And they'd have feedback like,
"Oh, where's the button for this?
I would like to do this inside the platform."
Two separate user groups
and two separate sets of feedback.
All right.
So, to sum it up,
the users and the clients
are sometimes two completely different groups
with different sets of feedback,
but it's important to keep in mind.
Got it. All right.
Moving on.

--- Section 4: Review & Recap ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Market Research - Sizing the Market ---

-: Hey, everyone.
Welcome back.
This section is all about competitive and market analysis.
A big part of product manager
is making sure that the market you're attempting to address
is large enough to make it worth going into.
This applies if you're a product manager at a company
and you're looking at building a feature or product
that will put you in another market
or if you're starting a new business on your own.
There are two common approaches
to thinking about market sizing,
one of them is top down and the other one is bottom up.
The top down analysis
is calculated by finding the total market
and then estimating what your share of the market is.
Let's say that we're selling an iPhone app
for, let's say ice cream connoisseurs.
Top down estimate would be something like,
"Okay, we know there are 100,000
ice cream connoisseurs with iPhones in the United States.
So if we can just get 10% of them
to download our app at $5 a piece,
we're gonna make $50,000."
The problem with this approach
is that you need to make assumptions
on how much market penetration you will have
inside that market.
Even though it sounds reasonable,
it's not the most respected way
of estimating the potential market.
A bottom up analysis is done
by thinking about the current sales of similar products
and then estimating how much of those sales you can capture.
This is a much more accurate approach
because it looks at patterns that exist in sales today
rather than the total market.
This is a better way to do it as a product manager,
but it takes a little more effort
and takes a little bit longer.
Again, let's pretend we have an iPhone app
for ice cream connoisseurs.
First, we must ask ourselves
where people currently buy apps
related to ice cream or food.
Obviously, this would be the Apple App store in this case.
Next, we think about the volume of sales
for existing similar apps.
You may think that there's nothing similar to app,
but in reality,
there's probably things at least slightly similar.
If there are no other ice cream connoisseur apps,
we could look at other apps
that have to do with other types of desserts or foods.
We do it a little bit of online research
or we look at websites like App Annie,
and we look at the sales volumes
and popularity for the existing apps out there.
So let's say that the similar apps
are downloaded about a thousand times per month globally.
At that point, we can make a conservative assumption
and say that if we get 5% of the sales
that they do per month,
it comes out to be about 50 downloads per month.
So do you see the difference between these two approaches?
The top down approach thinks about the total market size
or the potential number of users,
which is always quite optimistic.
The bottom up market looks at the current trends and data
to make sure our assumptions
stay a little closer to reality.
It is much better to be conservative
when it comes to starting a product or business,
or adding a new feature
than it is to be overly optimistic.
Lastly, I want to give you some tips
on tools and techniques you can use
to look at some market data.
One of the first things you can do
is just Google industry reports for X,
or industry or market size for X,
just using Google.
This is a really good way to find already existing reports
that industry research groups have put out.
Secondly, if you are looking at websites of competitors
or other similar apps,
then you can use a website like compete.com
and look at the amount of traffic
the different competitive websites get.
You can compare this to other ones or other industries
and get a really nice competitive overview.
Another tool you can use is the Google AdWords keyword tool.
This is a tool that Google provides
for people to do research
on advertisements they want to place with Google.
It shows you the volumes
and related terms of searches on Google
and it is extremely valuable
in determining the amount of interest out there
for your app or your product.
You can also search things like Twitter and Reddit
to see what people are saying
about things related to your product.
This also has the bonus of showing you
what frustrations they're having, if any,
because people usually will add additional comments
or respond and say,
"Well this is what I like,"
or don't like about a certain product.

--- Introduction to Finding Competitors ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Hey, so last lecture we learned about sizing up your market.
That's important because you really need to know
about the opportunity that you are sizing up
and the relative importance of that opportunity
versus your other opportunities.
Project management is all about making decisions
between opportunities.
So that's how big it is,
but you wanna know something that's even more important
than the size of your market?
The competitors in your market,
and that's what we're gonna be talking about
in the rest of the section.
Now, there are a lot of different market circumstances
that could happen with regards to competitors.
You could be going into a big market
with your new product or new feature
and that big market could have lots of competitors.
You could also be going into a small market
and that could have very few competitors,
or it could be the other way around.
We need to know how to collect information
on those competitors
and make an objective judgment
about what that means for our new product or feature.
Being able to make this type of analysis and decision
is crucial to being a product manager
and crucial to being an entrepreneur.
Now, if you're going into a market or growing into a market
that has a slew of different competitors
that all do things very similar to what you're proposing,
some of them do the exact same thing,
and some of them do what you're trying to do, but better,
that's something that you need
to know long before you actually engage
your development team and your company resources
in tackling that opportunity.
Similarly, if you have a market
that appears to be wide open,
no one seems to be doing what you are proposing to do,
you also need to be able to make a critical decision.
Now, remember, that's a weird scenario.
There's two sides to that coin actually.
Is it the case that no one is doing what you're proposing
because you're such a genius,
you're the first one to come up with the idea,
you Steve Jobs you,
or is it the case that no one else is doing it
because there's no customer demand,
and they all figured out
that it was a bad idea on their own?
Now, as a product manager,
you're gonna have to be in charge of feature triage.
That basically just means that you're gonna need to know
which potential opportunity, feature, or project
is most likely to, one, get you more users,
two, make your users happier, and three, enhance your brand.
And as an entrepreneur who's managing their own product,
it's the exact same.
You need to know which opportunity is the most likely
to get you the returns that you want,
so that you don't waste a lot of time and resources.
And you can't make that call
unless you know what your competitors look like,
what they're doing, and what they currently offer.
So we're gonna cover that throughout this entire section.
First off, we're gonna start with finding the competitors
because we can't make a critical judgment
unless we know what we're making a judgment on,
so see you in the next lecture.

--- Finding Competitors as a Product Manager ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back.
Let's get our market intelligence on
and start finding some competitors.
We cannot carve our beautiful Greek statue
of a woman with no arms, always no arms,
unless we have a large stone.
Terrible metaphor?
Yeah, probably, but I think you know what I mean.
We first need to channel all of our energy
into building a list of potential competitors.
And once we have that list,
then we can start chipping and carving
and making the critical decisions that we need
to make as a product manager.
Okay, let's get started.
And step one, you probably can't guess it.
Actually, step one for this is capture.
Now what do I mean by capture?
Well, we need to set up some way of recording
the competitors we find.
Do that before you even start looking
for your first competitor.
Whatever you use, Evernote, Google Docs, a piece of paper,
you can even talk into Siri and have it record
something for you.
You just need something set up.
For those of you who want to follow along
and do everything I do, open up a Google sheet.
That's what I'm gonna use.
Or open Excel if you want to.
And I'm just gonna fill column A
with the competitors we find.
Why do I put them there? You'll find out later.
And the first thing I'm gonna do to this list
is I'm gonna divide it into two categories,
known and unknown.
So first one is known.
And then I'm gonna leave five spaces.
I will explain. Unknown.
Now, for the top category you can put as many
as you want, to be honest.
And if you need more than five spots,
by all means you can shift everything else down.
But do you know what I mean for known?
Well, if you're a product manager,
presumably you work within a company,
and the company is probably prior established.
In that scenario, you're probably gonna know
who your biggest competitors are.
These are the people that you probably grumble about
in your sleep and theoretically talk trash about
to your other employees.
These are the people that when you're driving your car
you end up swerving because you get so angry
when you hear their commercial on the radio.
You should know these, so put these down.
This gives you a leg up.
Now, people out there who are doing this as an entrepreneur,
you're not gonna know this,
so you're probably not gonna have a known category.
Now, if you are in a company and you don't know
who your known competitors are,
number one, don't let your boss know.
And number two, try to figure this out
as quickly as possible and don't let anyone know
that you don't know this.
I'll give you a quick tip for finding this
in roughly four seconds.
Second one and second two, go to google.com.
Second three and second four,
all I want you to do is type the name
of your company and then the word versus.
So if I were using the company GoPro,
I would say "GoPro versus."
There you go.
Sony has essentially answered the question for me,
or at least given me a head start.
Right in a search suggestions Google tells me
that GoPro competes with Sony and Canon.
And if I were to search, I could find even more.
Looks like Xiaomi and Contour and et cetera, et cetera.
Great, you got it?
Now put your known right there, however many there are.
And then the next section, that's where we're gonna go out
and start digging for the ones we might not be aware of.
These are the ones that are kind of hiding in the bushes.
And as we collect these,
we're just gonna be typing these down.
And like your therapist,
passing no judgment on them whatsoever.
We are just collecting them, known and unknown.
So how exactly do we search for unknown competitors?
Well, the way you do that is you focus on problems.
Not your problems, cry baby.
I'm talking about the problems of your customers.
Now, you probably have figured this out already
up until the point in this course
'cause we've said this over and over and over again.
All ideas, products, and features all stem
from solving a problem for someone.
Even the most frivolous things out there
still solve a problem if you sit
and think about them long enough.
So what you need to do is just stop,
take the product or the feature that you are evaluating
and answer the question, what problem does this solve?
And then when you figure that out,
answer the question, for whom?
Now a pro tip, don't put my users in the second section
because that is how you get tunnel vision
and you just end up making mistakes.
We need to get a lot more specific than that.
So let's do it with an example,
and we'll use GoPro since they're one
of my favorite punching bags.
What problem does a GoPro Hero Black 4 solve?
Well, the problem it solves is probably
that people wanna film action sequences
or film shots that involve moving objects,
cars, para gliders, parachuting, whatnot,
and the traditional applications are just not suited for it.
You're not going to be carrying a large camcorder
or a DSLR in these situations.
You need something with a different form factor.
So to put simply, it is hard to film action sequences
with traditional cameras.
And for whom?
Well, mostly thrill seekers,
specifically the ones that want to film it.
So I'd probably say thrill seekers and/or videographers.
Now, once you've identified the problem
that it solves and for who, you're basically halfway there.
Okay, now that we have a distilled version
of what our project or feature does,
we know who it's for and what problem it solves,
let's use three different techniques
with this information to find competitors.
Now, there are obviously tons and tons of ways
that you can find competitors,
but these are three easy ways that will get you
a very large amount of coverage.
Be very surprised if you had to use anything else.
Fortunately for you, it's easy.
Just go to google.com.
Google's the best search engine.
They're the best at finding things online.
That's why we use them.
Now, strategy number one,
I want you to channel the type of user
you're building your feature or your product for.
This is a user that has the problem you've identified.
Now, that user probably complains about the problem.
How would they complain about the problem?
What specific wordings or phrases or context
would they use when complaining about it online?
Try to channel your annoying sister for just a second
and think about what have they been saying
before that you've seen, you've recorded, you've observed,
and is there any other way that they could
articulate this or verbalize the problem
that you can think of?
Take those and write them down.
If I was a thrill seeker that really needed a camera
to stick to my head, I'd probably be complaining
along the lines of DSLR too big
for action shots.
Or something along the lines of keep breaking
my camera for, insert the activity.
You know, parachuting or BMX biking or skateboarding,
or all the different things that GoPro people use these for.
Try to write down as many as you can.
And once you have the variations down,
take those variations and start googling them.
What you'll find are three different things.
One, companies that are using that verbiage.
Companies often do that.
They take their customers or their potential customers,
see what they're complaining about,
and they'll use the exact same language
in their marketing message.
So when you search for that exact wording,
you might find companies that are targeting them.
The second thing you'll find are individual people
complaining about it online.
Now that itself is not particularly helpful,
but when they're complaining about it,
chances are there is a conversation around it
or resulting from it,
and then you can see how other people reacted to it,
and in most cases you'll find how other people
solve the problem.
You can find potential competitors that way.
Can't find cameras small enough for my skateboarding videos.
Oh man, that sucks.
Have you tried the Sony Cyber-Shot?
I'm not really into the cameras.
And number three is that you'll find
what Google sees to be related to that problem.
Google is very good at connecting the dots
between what people search for
and what they typically are looking for
or what websites they're going to.
So you might serendipitously find competitors
because Google made the connections for you.
Now, as a pro tip, I suggest using this tag in Google.
It goes site:
and then insert the name of a website you wanna search.
Now what this does is it tells Google to only search
a specific website.
Now, why would we use this in this technique?
Well, we're trying to channel customers saying something,
so we probably want to find individual people
actually complaining about it
and we wanna find places where they're probably
discussing it.
So if you say site equals then what you can do
is you can insert some well-known sites
and communities where people often talk about this stuff.
So I'll just give you some of the hot ones,
like reddit.com is a fantastic way
of finding consumer conversations.
Quora.com is another one.
Believe it or not, Yahoo Answers is a decent resource
for finding this stuff.
Look through the results,
prune what you can find out of it, and add it to your list.
Now, strategy number two.
Strategy number two is to literally describe
exactly what your product or feature does.
Be like a robot and just literally describe it.
Tiny camera fits to your head, shoots video.
Tiny camera designed for action.
Compact camera you can attach to your head that films.
Things like that.
Now, what you'll get, again, are three different things.
One, you'll find companies that use
those literal descriptions of their features.
Now, they might not use the marketing verbiage
or the complaint verbiage that we had in the last strategy,
but they might use some of the feature descriptions.
Very literal. It does this.
And that's a great way of picking up competitors
you otherwise wouldn't find.
Now the second thing you're gonna find
is at the top of your search list, there's gonna be ads.
And those ads are essentially companies
who have self-selected themselves to pitch
to you because they think that that function
you're searching for is related to their product.
Those people are paying to be there.
Therefore, probably a good chance they could
compete with you.
And then number three, what Google, again, thinks about it.
Very, very helpful.
Now, pro tip for this strategy.
One thing I would suggest doing is play around
with quotation marks.
Now, when you put quotation marks around
what you're searching, that does a hard search.
So when you do a hard search,
Google only looks for exact matches
of whatever is in the quotations.
The reason why you might wanna do that
is because if I said camera that mounts on your head,
I don't want that to match up with something
that says, you know, mount a camera on your head
like a suggestion or mount a horse and use a camera,
things like that.
Those are a little bit too off the mark.
And then the last one is try to search
for how you in your head would pitch
this product or feature.
If I was pitching the GoPro,
maybe I might call it world's smallest 4K camera.
That's a one-sentence pitch.
Try to think of some one-sentence pitches
that describe what it is that you're working on
and try entering that.
Try as much as you can to be specific
when you use this strategy.
Don't just say, this app saves you time.
A lot of things out there save you time.
This isn't gonna help you if you're that vague.
If your app saves you time by saving
your voice notes to Evernote,
well then search for it like a pitch on that.
Like save time by recording your voice.
Save time on the go by using your voice.
Write to-do lists with your voice.
Save time on the go by just speaking.
Things like that. Okay, got it?
Those are three different techniques.
Figure out the problem you solve, who you solve it for,
and then use those three different strategies
to drum up a list of competitors that you think
might be worth analyzing.
Throw those in the list,
and I'll see you in the next lecture.

--- Direct / Indirect / Potential Competitors and Their Impact ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So now that we have a list of some dumb competitors
we now need to talk a little bit more
about how we can chop this list up and better strategize.
Now there are a lot of different shades
of competitors out there.
There's the wimpy, not trying very hard competitor.
You might have a, let's say scatterbrained
and doing everything competitor, and you might
have a big scary competitor that is looking straight at you.
We need to sort these beasts out
so we don't have a cluttered mess of threats.
Don't be Chicken Little, the sky is not falling.
In order to do that effectively
and be effective as a product manager, we need to
introduce the four different types of competitors.
Now, if you have an MBA, good for you, skip this lecture.
But if you do not,
I think you should stay in because you'll learn something.
Now we've four different types of competitors.
There's Direct Competitors,
Indirect, Potential, and Substitute.
And in order to explain the four
let's use a terrible metaphor.
Now let's, let's just imagine
that you are running a restaurant that serves Italian food
and specifically you like to sell the tortellini.
Tortellini is the pasta that has
like cheese and meat inside of a thing of pasta.
I'm not really an expert in this.
Now, Direct Competitors are competitors that are not
only going after the same target customer group as you are,
they're also trying to solve the same problem you are.
Now, Direct Competitors usually have very similar solutions
and users are often going to have to make a direct
and conscious decision between using your product
and using the competitor's product.
In the restaurant metaphor,
these are the guys that are literally across the street
from you serving Italian food in a fancy dining atmosphere
as you with the same price range.
Oh, and also they specialize in tortellini.
Now, indirect competitors are competitors that
solve the same problem but generally in a different way,
and for a different target customer group.
They could be serving a smaller subset
within your target customer group,
or they might include your target customer group
but they have a much larger market that just so
happens to also address your group.
They could also be targeting entirely different verticals,
or sectors.
In the restaurant metaphor, this is the restaurant that's
in a different neighborhood that serves Greek food
that people often confuse for Italian food.
Now, the third type of competitor,
Potential Competitors are competitors that offer something
to the same target customer group,
or a similar target customer group,
but they don't address the same problem that you do,
or they don't have anything remotely
in the same product line as you.
I also like to refer to these
as Peripheral Competitors, 'cause you like to keep them
in your periphery because they're worth keeping tabs on.
These are the metaphorical 'dolphins in your tuna net.'
You were looking for tuna,
but you got some dolphin in there.
In the restaurant metaphor,
this would be like an Italian grocery store.
They don't serve hot meals on location,
but they could foreseeably add chairs
in a restaurant function.
Now the last one, are Substitute Competitors.
Now what exactly is a substitute?
It's a product that solves the same core problem,
but it's not angled or delivered
in even remotely the same way.
It also doesn't generally target the same people.
Now with an Italian restaurant,
you're probably targeting people who want to go
out to eat, want Italian food, and are also hungry.
Now a substitute might be DiGiorno's Pizza.
It solves the core problem, which is, you're hungry.
You want Italian food, technically,
but it's not going out to eat.
It's not even remotely anything like it,
but you could substitute it for going out to eat.
Now, how this relates to what we're doing
in this section.
Well, it's actually rather obvious.
Go back to your list.
Now remember in the last lecture I was using GoPro,
so I made my own list of competing products for GoPro.
Before we had an in known and unknown.
Now what I'm gonna suggest is you actually get rid
of those and instead, list off each one
based off of the four different types
that I've suggested to you.
Are they Direct Competitor, an Indirect, a Potential,
or a Substitute Competitor?
Once you have that, then what you can do
is you can prioritize in your head
and have a much cleaner idea
of what the competitive landscape looks like.
Put at the top, Direct Competitors.
We are the most concerned with those,
but below those, Indirect Competitors,
because we are also interested in what they're doing
not as much as the direct.
Then we look at Potential Competitors, and the last one
is Substitute Competitors.
Now, the reason why we wanna rank these in kind
of a tier system, Tier One: Direct,
Tier Two: Indirect, Tier Three: Potential,
Tier Four: Substitute, is that Tier Ones
are the ones that we're concerned the most about,
but also we need to make sure that our product
offerings are as competitive as possible to those.
Do we care whether or not our product or feature
is competitive to the other three?
Yes, but not as much as the Direct.
The Substitutes we need to at least make sure
that we are a viable
alternative to Potentials.
We need to make sure that our product offering
is something they can't themselves do easily, and Indirect;
we again, just need to make sure
that we're not losing too many customers to them.
And there you go.
That's what that would look like under
the four different categories.
That's a lot easier to understand.
Now you could direct your attention to the ones
that actually matter.
All you have to do is dig into them and see exactly
what they do.
These up here in the Direct category do almost
the exact same thing as a GoPro Hero4.
In the Indirect category, we have things like
the Cybershot and the Powershot
which were cameras that could be used as action cameras.
In fact, they're used for moving objects
and they do solve that problem,
but they're not for the same people.
They're targeted for people who wanna take videos
of their kids' tennis match, or track and field match
not strapping into their head and jumping out of a plane.
We also see things like the Vievu,
which I thought was a GoPro direct competitor.
Turns out it's not.
It's a body camera for police officers (chuckles).
So same problem, need to shoot things at in action settings
that are small and portable,
but not the same people.
And then there are a couple other ones.
Under Potential, I put the Eyeshot 360,
which I realize actually is a wifi-enabled camera
and they target it primarily for surveillance means,
like putting on your dash
and recording or putting it in your apartment and recording.
Not the same problem.
Not really the same people,
but they have the same expertise, the same general area.
They could be a Potential Competitor.
And the last one is a Substitute, which is Opteka,
which I didn't realize was not a competitor.
It's actually a grip handle that you can put other cameras
on and then use it like an action camera.
So that would be a Substitute.
They could use it,
but it doesn't solve the problem at all the same way.
Okay, guys. Questions, concerns,
post in the group discussion.
Otherwise we're moving on
to more analysis of how to judge your competitors.

--- The Five Criteria for Understanding Competitors ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
All right, so this far in this section,
we figured out how to find competitors,
how to compare them to ourselves,
how to compare potential features
and potential products we're thinking of,
to our competition.
But now we need to need to talk a little more broadly
about as a Product Manager and as an Entrepreneur,
what in general do you have to keep tabs
on with your competitors?
So I'm gonna introduce five separate criteria
that are crucial for you as a Product Manager
or Entrepreneur to understand about your competitors.
Now, a large part of what makes you successful
as a Product Manager, is your ability to keep tabs
on your competitors and make sure that you are ahead
of the curve and know what exactly they're going to do.
One way of thinking about it is
that it's kind of like a horse race, and especially
if you're working on a team that has an established product,
you're going to be constantly jockeying
with your competitors for users, features,
press, funding, amongst a number of different things.
And in order to be successful in this jockeying game
you can't just keep tabs on them.
You have to have a deeper sense of what they can do.
So let's talk about five different dimensions
that are absolutely
crucial to understand about your competitors.
The first one I wanna talk
about is called The Product Core.
Now it's a little confusing, but what I mean
by Product Core is the product team,
I'm talking about whoever on your competitor's side
is in charge of making their product.
If it's a physical product,
it's gonna be the physical engineers that are building it.
And if it's a, let's say, web application,
it's going to be the developers.
And the question we want to answer here is
how good is our competitor's product team?
Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook,
made a very notorious public statement when he said
that any day, he would take one great engineer
over a hundred average engineers.
Now, that's obviously kind of counterintuitive, right?
You would assume more people can do more.
So what exactly does he mean here?
Well, what he means is that especially in web development,
or development of applications, having a great engineer
actually can do a lot more for you than a lot
of people that can get low level work done.
Topnotch engineers in general can outperform
larger groups of good engineers.
Instagram is a great example.
Instagram, when it was bought by Facebook
for a billion dollars, you would think was a huge company.
No, actually they only had 13 employees, and I believe only
eight of them were product engineers.
So, know how good their product core is,
make strides and make attempts to figure out that question.
Well now, what does this matter to you?
Well, if your competitor has, let's say,
a better product team, that means
in general they can out execute you.
They can out engineer you and they can out produce you.
So if you're in a situation
where you have a team that's not
as good as your competitors,
you need to take that into consideration.
Their probably not weighed into features, or weighed
into product categories where one of the key differentiators
or the key components of it is the engineering quality.
Of course, if on the flip side
if you have a better product core, it's the exact opposite
you can wade into areas that rely heavily
on the quality of engineering.
And if you do that,
that's something that your competitors will have
a hard time catching up to and imitating.
The second criteria we need to use when
considering our competitors is to know the size
of their user base.
Now, why does it matter how big your competitor's
user base is or how big their customer base is
in the case of more traditional businesses?
It's kind of counterintuitive, right?
And immediately it's hard to figure
out what that would matter, right?
Because even a large user base, that doesn't necessarily
mean you can build better products faster.
Well, actually this is a pretty important one.
Companies or competitors that have large user
bases, have certain advantages that companies
with small user bases don't have.
Oftentimes when a company has a large user base,
anytime they launch a new feature or launch
into a new market, they have the potential to
essentially dominate the market just by virtue
of how many people they bring into it.
They also have an easier time getting press.
In general, press, and press coverage
is gonna be more inclined to
cover companies that are larger and more well known.
Another advantage is
that a large user base will allow you to strike deals
with other companies more easily.
Much easier to negotiate when you say, I'm bringing X amount
of users to the table, I'm the largest company in town.
And the last thing is that size often
is an advantage intrinsically.
Think about like, social products, right?
A social network is only as valuable
as however many people are in it.
So the larger one is inherently going to
have a better product.
Now, here's the classic example, and it's Apple Music.
I don't know if you've heard this,
but Apple's launching into the music space,
specifically, the subscription music space
and they're gonna compete with Spotify and SoundCloud.
Sorry Cole.
Now, can Apple make a better music player?
We don't really know.
And are they at a disadvantage
because they're coming late to the market?
Actually, none of that matters
because their user size is so large.
Consider this.
Spotify and SoundCloud have something around
30 million combined paying users.
Now think about Apple.
How many users do they have?
It's actually 1 billion.
So even if Apple comes into that space,
converts 1% of their market into their Apple music product,
they are a serious competitor.
So be aware, because in this case, size does matter.
All right guys, take a sec to think
about those and I'll catch you
in the next lecture where we cover the next three.
See you then.

--- The Last Three Criteria for Understanding Competitors ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So let's round out the rest of the five criteria
that we need to focus on as product managers.
Now the third criteria is design.
Now be aware of your competitor's ability or inability
to make products
that are aesthetically pleasing or beautiful.
Now, it sounds shallow, but in general,
people are more inclined to use products
that are well thought out and well designed.
How many things do you use simply because it's easy to use
and maybe it's pretty.
And I'm sure you guys in your head
have figured out the next example.
Again, it's gonna be Apple.
Apple's a great example
because they are so focused on design and usability
that they are a threat to virtually any market they enter.
Now, they are especially threatening
to markets that use design and usability
as a key differentiator.
Is Apple gonna enter in the toaster market?
Probably not, but you just saw what they did
to the watch market.
Another real life example is a company called Path.
Path was making a social network to compete with Facebook
and at a certain point,
believe they had something like 30 million users.
They stuck around for quite a long time,
solely based on their ability
to make a more beautiful product
and their product was very nice.
If I were in a similar space I would be weary
about treading into a space controlled by a firm
that has top-notch design.
Now, number four is brand.
And brand is kind of a funny thing.
We often think of it as something that's really abstract
but when it comes to managing products
and your competitive advantage, it actually can be huge.
The perceptions that people have of you
and the products you sell
can determine what you can do in the future.
A brand can be a blessing and a curse.
It can allow you to be more effective
in certain areas and restricted in others.
In general, strong brands demand
a much higher level of customer loyalty.
When they launch into a new market or a new initiative
they're more likely
to bring a large group of people to that.
They also have the advantage
of being able to charge higher prices.
Remember our comparison of GoPro.
Well you probably thought,
"GoPro, why are you charging $500
and other people are charging $300 for the same thing?"
Well, because GoPro can do it,
they have the strongest brand in the space.
If you look at the market share, they are doing very well.
So be aware of the relative positioning between your brand
and the brand of your competitor,
especially as it specifically pertains to new products
or new features.
If your competitor has a stronger brand,
it can be hard for you to catch up with any new initiative
or product that they've built.
They're inevitably going to get more press, more funding,
and since they're a stronger brand,
they're gonna get a better benefit of the doubt.
People in general are more flexible
when they're trying on a brand
they already have an affinity for.
Now, on the flip side, what about in the case
where your competitor has a weaker brand?
Maybe it's diminished
or maybe it's actually conflicting.
It's really hard for a brand that's pigeonholed in one area
to branch out into areas
that people would perceive as unrelated.
Sony can make a tv, a camera, a toaster,
and a car if they wanted to.
Now, Lexus cannot make a toaster.
They cannot make a tv, they can't make a camera.
They can really just make cars.
So be aware how highly regarded
is the brand of your competitor, and what's the gap between
the perception of your brand and the perception of theirs?
Does that relative difference
allow them certain advantages or certain avenues
that you wouldn't be able to take advantage of?
And again, be aware of any weaknesses to exploit.
Are there certain things your brand can do
that theirs couldn't?
And the last thing we're gonna discuss is speed.
When your competitor sets down
and starts working on a new product or feature,
how quickly can they build it, turn it around,
and ship it, so to speak?
Try to get a sense of this
because it's very relevant in a lot of different situations.
Now, when is it most relevant?
Well, this is most relevant in situations where your company
or your competitor's company is significantly larger.
In general, it's a natural consequence
that as a company gets larger and larger and larger
they'll have more communication structures,
more hierarchies, and more bureaucracies
that will typically slow them down
with regards to what they're trying to execute on.
So be aware, are you getting so big and so slow
that a small team that's more focused and more agile
can beat you to any new market, feature,
or user base you're going after?
If that's the case,
then you probably need to shy away from situations
where the product success
is directly tied to the product launch date.
One of the reasons why MySpace
is not the number one social network anymore
is because Facebook started off as a smaller group.
They were able to build features faster
and they basically just ran circles around MySpace
while they tried to catch up
and it took them forever and it didn't work.
All right, so those are the five: product core, user base,
size, speed,
design,
and brand.
Get a decent understanding of your competitors
in each of these five different criteria.
That's what's going to allow you to make the right call.
All right, see you in the next lecture.

--- What's a Feature Table? ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
All right, so at this stage we have a big list
of direct, indirect, substitute, and potential competitors.
Now, let's use a technique
that can help us compare ourselves
against all of our competitors.
It's called the feature table.
Now, have you seen a feature table before?
It looks like this.
Basically what it is, it's a comparison chart
that we can use to compare our product versus the product
of our competitors on a number of dimensions.
On the X axis, even though it's not really an axis,
at the top we're gonna put our competitors
and on the Y axis, again, the left side
we're gonna put the dimensions that we want to
compare ourselves on.
Now, this exercise is meant to give you a bigger picture
of how competitive you are in general in your market.
Why is that important?
Well, you as a product manager or an entrepreneur
need to know where your other competitors' products are,
because you need to know what is cutting edge
and what is competitive before you come
up with product ideas and before you launch your products.
And the more obvious reason that
if you launch products that are worse
than what's already out there, then in general
you're probably going to fail.
There are some exceptions, but most times you're gonna fail.
Now, do you need to make feature tables
on the job as a product manager?
Well, not necessarily,
but knowing how to make these will be immensely useful
to you, and it could become a valuable asset
for you and your team later down the road
because these are the best ways
of conveying quickly and easily for everyone to understand:
are you competitive or not?
Now, you can't mentally keep track
of every single thing your competitor is doing,
adding and removing.
GoPro has something like 50 plus competitors,
that's insane.
All right so let's make some feature tables,
get some practice.
That's what we're gonna do in the next lecture,
see you then.

--- Putting Together a Feature Table ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So let's make a feature table.
Now you remember what those are? They're a comparison chart.
And on the x-axis, the left side, we put the dimensions
that we wanna compare ourselves to our competitors on
and on the top, the Y, so to speak, we put the competitors
that we wanna compare ourselves to.
Now you can do it like I'm about to do.
I whip out a piece of paper and I draw it out.
It can get messy very quickly
but that's the way I prefer to do it.
You guys can do it whatever way you want.
I suggest if you're not gonna use a written version,
use Google Sheets or Excel.
Why?
Because it'll look clean, it's easier to view
and also the cells can stretch as you type out more.
Okay, so let's set it up.
All right, so first off if you're putting your graph
on a piece of paper draw out your graph using Google Sheets
or Excel.
You don't actually have to do anything.
Just make sure that you leave enough space at the top
for let's say at least four to five competitors.
You can put as many as you want to
but I'd say at a minimum for now let's put four to five.
And then on the other side, leave enough room so
that you can put a good variety of dimensions
to compare yourself on.
Now at the top we fill in our competitors.
Now, which competitors do we pick, right?
Because we have direct, indirect, substitute and potential.
I suggest starting with direct competitors. Why?
Because those are the ones
that are gonna be the most similar to you.
But, the differences between you
and your direct competitors are the most important.
I personally then like to take the indirects
and the substitutes and the potentials, throw those
in a separate graph which I will analyze
after my direct graph.
Now, in general, direct competitors are the ones
that you really wanna stay up to date with.
Watch their products, see how they change,
see what they add, what they remove
and try to get a general idea of how they're gonna react
to you when you do something.
Now, the name of the game for your other types
of competitors is to make sure
that your solution is obviously better
than your substitutes, your indirect competitors
and your potential competitors
for your target customer group.
Use that table as a quick reference to make sure
that it's obvious you are better.
Now if you have a situation where,
it's not obvious you are better
than a substitute, you have a serious problem
and you need to go back and start from scratch.
In the restaurant metaphor, that's
like your Italian restaurant serving pizza
that actually tastes just as good
or worse than DiGorno pizza.
That's a fundamental issue you have to address.
Now on the left we're gonna put features and factors.
You can really put whatever you want over here.
I suggest you start with these two features and factors.
Why? Because they're not very subjective.
They're pretty easy to nail down and be specific about.
Now what you choose to put in this part
of the table is entirely up to you.
You need to think really hard about,
what you think your target customer group cares about
with regards to your product.
When they go and they're looking
at your product, let's say it's a physical product,
what do you think is gonna be the one, two, three, four
and number five reason that they choose yours
over the others?
Now keep in mind every product has a different vision
and a different positioning.
So, the features and factors that you think are relevant
to your target customer might be different
than what your competitors think are the most important.
Maybe you think ease of use
and price is really the key formula to winning your market.
Well, your competitor might think instead
that it's design, aesthetics and integrations.
The key here is not
to put what your competitors think is important.
It's to put what you think is important
to your customer group.
'Cause at the end of the day,
your product vision is how you plan to win the market.
It's your bet.
It's not realistic to think
that you're gonna beat every single competitor
in every single category, especially
if you deprioritize certain aspects over others.
So brainstorm your best and honestly do some research
as well to get a good chunk of what you think is important.
Now, for any given product, let's say I might put price
as one that's a very common factor.
I might put reliability.
That could easily be a common factor in physical products,
or you know, even softwares that are dependent
on things like uptime.
And then as a feature, I could say it needs to do feature X
and it needs to have the ability to do Y.
Now this is just a template, you need
to fill these in yourself.
But to help you kind of get
through this, let's imagine again in
that restaurant metaphor, what would I mean when I say,
features or ability to do something?
I know it's goofy to think of a restaurant
in terms of features
but it is actually a way of thinking about it.
So I could say that a feature that I think is important
and that my product's gonna have is
that we offer a price fixed three course meal.
And I think
that's really important when people pick
a high-end Italian restaurant.
Now for the ability to do something, maybe I think
that being able to make reservations online is important.
It's important to their perception of the restaurant
and that's gonna get you more customers
and a better experience.
Okay, now that you have it set up,
go out, research your competitors.
And the best way of doing that is to actually go out
and use their products.
Give each product an honest appraisal.
Put in the box what you need to know
but keep it short and uniform.
Answer a yes or no question with yes or no
and then it's up to you.
You can put a comma and put one or two more words
that might be a little bit more specific
but the key, try to make them uniform so when you glance
at it, you don't have to read every single cell.
All right, so that is the template.
Next lecture, let's try to make an actual one.
See you then.

--- [ACTIVITY] Oculus Rift Between Your Friends ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Practice Building a Feature Table ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back.
So, let's make a real feature table
and let's do it for my favorite company, GoPro.
Why they're my favorite,
cuz they're very easy to beat up on.
The true story,
they're the most shorted company in the world.
If you don't know what that means,
just Google 'GoPro shorted company'.
Okay, let's see how this works in action.
Now, on the right, we're gonna put
our actual product, as usual.
We're gonna put GoPro.
And then we're gonna fill out the other competitors.
So, let me introduce the competitors.
Now, remember when we did this as an example
and we wrote down some of the direct and indirect
and substitute competitors?
Well, we're just gonna make a feature table
for the direct competitors.
And I've just picked a handful that I think
would be worth comparing.
So, let me introduce the competitors.
Okay, number one is TomTom Bandit.
This is the one that, yes, is made by
that GPS company that was made obsolete
the day Google Maps came out.
It also looks to me like a plastic hot dog.
But we're gonna put it up there
because it actually sells pretty well.
Now, that next one is Veho.
Now, that's the one that looks exactly like GoPro.
They copied every single detail down to, like,
the tiny little corners and even the colors.
I'm amazed they didn't get sued.
And the last one is gonna be the
Sony Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
They all have very strange names.
Okay, so stiff competition.
Now, we need to think about what are
the most important factors for the people
that need an extreme-use, action camera.
Now, if I were a GoPro,
I'd probably dip into some of our data on customers.
I would research a very specific
customer profile I was going for.
But for our purposes, we'll give it
our best guess.
I'm gonna guess one of the aspects
is gonna be price.
Why? Because I'm assuming a lot of our customers
are broke surfers, who don't wanna spend too much
if they don't have to.
Another one I think might be important
is aesthetics.
Why? Well, because with an action camera,
you're someone who does extreme things,
perhaps you're a vain person.
I'm making judgements.
Maybe not true.
I think it's probably important that
there's a cool factor to it.
You really don't want it looking
like the Microsoft Zune.
The next one I'm gonna put is weight.
Kind of spitballing on this one,
but I'm gonna guess since the idea
is that they're small and portable,
you might wear it on your head or your chest,
or something like that,
that you don't want it to infringe
on your ability to do whatever it is
that you're trying to do.
So, I'm gonna guess you don't want something
that has the weight of a bowling bowl.
I'm gonna put 4K, as well.
That is the new, kind of, cutting edge
way of filming.
We are not shooting in 4K right now.
If we were shooting in 4k,
you would be able to zoom in and get into
my pores.
But for people that are doing this,
I would imagine they want that.
Why? Because higher resolution makes
your pictures look better in general.
So, I would imagine if you're gonna do
something extreme or cool,
you want it to look as cool as possible.
The next one I'm gonna put is max FPS,
which means frames per second in camera speak.
What I'm getting at is can it shoot in slow motion?
Right?
So right now we are shooting in
24 frames per second.
If I shot this in 60 frames per second,
I would be moving really slowly
and it might look like some of those sequences
you see on commercials.
So, I wanna see how slow these can go.
I think that's gonna be interesting because,
again, people use these for action shots.
They wanna slow down and watch the coolest parts.
The last thing I'm gonna put is accessories.
Now, accessories I think are important, right?
Because a small action camera, it's small,
it's kind of awkward.
You need to have an easy way of putting it
on your wrist, on your head, on your chest,
and using a lot of tools to get
what you need done.
You're not gonna go grab a fork
and duct tape it to it.
That's just not gonna cut it.
Now, there are obviously some things I ignored
and these are just decisions I made.
I ignored things like battery life.
Ignored things like the ability
to edit on the actual camera,
which is apparently a feature amongst
the action cameras.
I also decided on camera controls
probably weren't that important.
I don't really know how important it is
to be able to scrub through what you're filming
on the little box.
It just seems like all you need to do is
press record and go.
Now, I'm making these judgements
because GoPro users probably want
the cutting edge.
They want to film really cool stuff
in short periods of time.
That's why I don't think battery life
is gonna be tops for them.
I could totally be wrong.
And I don't think editing on the thing
is gonna make sense
because people use GoPros probably want
to make a montage or a video that looks
as good as possible.
That's not something you're gonna get editing
on a tiny little box.
Okay? I was lucky to get all this information
just from individual websites and
a Top 10 Competitors comparison website
relatively easy.
For you guys, it's all gonna be easy as well.
Just go to the actual competitor's website.
They'll tell you everything you need to know.
Again, in reality, what I would probably do
is go out, read consumer reviews,
talk to customers, see what they experienced.
And most importantly, I would play with
the actual product.
There's no substitute for you actually
using their product and making a judgment.
All right, let's fill it out for the GoPro.
The GoPro cost close to $500.
499.
Aesthetics, they're all kind of ugly.
I think there's some improvement.
But for the most part,
I think it's probably like a seven out of 10.
It's better than a lot of them.
Weight 89 grams, that means nothing to me right now.
Does it shoot in 4k?
Yes, it actually does shoot in 4k.
And I'm gonna put a secondary piece of information,
which is that it can shoot up to
30 frames per second when it's in that
high resolution format.
Max FPS, I just put yes, because it can
go above the normal FPS.
And it can go up to 120 if you're shooting
in 1080p.
For those of you who don't know what that means,
just don't worry about it.
Accessories, I put a hundred plus
because when you search on Amazon,
there are an enormous amount of accessories
for GoPros.
Okay, cool.
So, now let's just start filling them out.
TomTom Bandit.
This is what I gathered from their website.
They cost $349.
Pretty expensive, but cheaper than the GoPro.
Aesthetics, I would give them a four out of 10.
Again, I said they look like a plastic hot dog
or a submarine with a big eyeball in the front.
I honestly don't know what they're going for.
You just run around with it like this.
And just point it at people like a laser pointer.
Weight, 190 grams.
I'm not sure what that means,
but in relative comparison to the GoPro,
that's a big honking item.
4k? Yes, it does do it.
But it only shoots in 12 frames per second.
That's questionable.
The max FPS is 60 frames per second versus our 120.
And does it have accessories?
Yes, but not very many.
Only about 10 I could find.
Moving on to the Veho.
The Veho is cheap. It's $200.
The aesthetics are very similar to the GoPro.
It's just a little bit worse.
So, I give it a six out of 10.
The weight is 84 grams.
Can it shoot in 4k?
No, it cannot.
The max FPS is, again,
like our favorite plastic hotdog,
it's about 60 frames per second.
Does it have accessories?
More than the hot dog but still not a ton.
I think I found around 15-ish.
And the last one,
the Sony Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
That one is probably the closest competitor.
This one is $399.
Aesthetics, I give it a six out of 10.
Doesn't look as good as the GoPro,
but it's not that bad.
Weight, it's 114 grams.
It can shoot in 4K and it can shoot
up to 30 frames per second,
compared to the GoPro, do the exact same thing.
The max FPS is 120.
And the number of accessories I could find
was over the 25 range.
Okay, there you have it.
Now, what we could do is internalize this
and understand are we beating our
direct competitors?
Are we the obvious choice?
Or are we only appealing to one segment?
Are there areas we should focus our energy
on improving?
Are there areas that we should just entirely ignore?
I would love to hear you guys' thoughts on this.
Answer that question.
What do you think?
What should GoPro do based off of
what we just filled out?
Post it in the group discussion.
We'll talk about it.
In the next lecture, we're gonna do this again
but we're gonna do it in a more granular way.
We're gonna make a feature table
for one specific proposed feature
and we're gonna use a platform that
everyone's familiar with, Udemy.
All right, see you in the next lecture.

--- Analyze Specific Features ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture we're gonna do more feature tables
but we're gonna do it this time
from a different angle in a different way.
Now watching the last two lectures
you probably think that feature tables are only helpful
for comparing large products on everything they do
to other products and everything they do.
And that's not actually the case.
The other feature tables
they kind of look like post-mortems.
They look like after you've built your product, you know
what do we need to work on,
improve, or deprioritized compared
to what our other competitors are doing?
And that's really important as a product manager
you're constantly doing that
and you will have a large product to hold on to,
maintain, and make sure that you're not losing ground.
But how do we use this technique going forward?
Let's say we're proposing a feature,
proposing a new product.
Can we use this as a way to determine what we should put
into our product or know whether or not it's feasible?
So let's do just that.
We're gonna use this now for a proposed feature.
And we'll go back to our other example, not GoPro.
We're gonna use Udemy.
Now you're using Udemy
online marketplace for education.
Anybody can create a course, anybody can take one.
And for the most part, they're expensive
but they also discount very cheaply.
Let's say you're a product manager at Udemy, okay?
And we're gonna imagine that we're gonna add the
feature that we had previously, which is group discussions.
We think it should be interesting for students to interact
with the course in a different way, post discussions.
And that way the instructor can post back
or other students can post to it.
Now, what would you think
would be important to that feature?
So answer those at home while I make my feature table.
It's gonna take a little bit.
Cause this time I wanna make sure
that the lines are actually somewhat straight.
Okay, on the left, let's start with some
of the aspects that we think would be important
in a group discussion or a lecture discussion feature.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna fill these
out and then we're gonna fill out our competitors
and then we're going to see what they have
and offer before deciding what we're gonna do.
So the first thing I'd like to ask is
can you actually post a discussion for a lecture?
I'm assuming some competitors might not actually have that.
Another aspect I think would be important is time markers.
If I put a group discussion, ask a question
can I tie that specifically
to one specific piece of the lecture?
So it's not just generic,
you don't know what you're referring to.
The next one I think is important
are probably engagement features.
If I'm posting
it's a good thing to get other students to post.
And what better way to do that than have things like likes
and shares and different ways that people can engage
and say whether or not they like the content.
The next one I think might be important is location.
It might be important
for our group discussion that everyone knows where it is
and it's prominent, otherwise people might not use it.
And the last one I'm gonna put is post images.
Can you post images?
I think that would be interesting.
It could make the discussions more enriched.
Something I would guess that's probably
par for the course for a group discussion tool.
Okay, And so I'm just gonna fill
out some of the competitors based off
of the list that I made before looking for Udemy.
And they're the usual suspects.
Skillshare is probably the first one that comes to mind.
Then we probably have Coursera
which is quite a bit different, but still a competitor.
Then we have Udacity.
Still a little bit different, but still a direct competitor.
And then the last one is Lynda.
If you guys have ever taken a Lynda tutorial course
those are competitors.
Again, solutions different, but they go
for the same exact people.
And then of course we're gonna put ourselves
at the very end.
That's us.
All right, so follow along with me.
I'm gonna jump into each product
and we're gonna find the answers.
Now, lucky for you, I've already logged
into all of these different websites, created accounts
and now I'm gonna get blasted
by them every single day with their promotional emails.
But I'll take the hit.
Okay, so this is Skillshare.
This is what it looks like.
This is their viewer player.
Notice how it's different than Udemy.
Now let's see, do they have,
this is the question we're gonna answer,
a group discussion tool?
Oh, there they go.
Yep, you post group discussions right there.
So the answer to that one is yes.
The second thing I'm gonna put is integrated
meaning that it's integrated into the actual lecture viewer.
It's on the same page.
Moving on to Coursera.
Now, this is what the Coursera viewer looks like.
So the question is, can you post a group discussion?
Looks like you can down here.
Ah, you can post right here with a new thread.
And these are the discussions.
So I'm gonna say yes.
And again, I'm gonna say integrated.
Moving on to Udacity.
Okay, this is what their player looks like.
This is a quite snazzy looking player to be honest.
Do they have discussions?
Yes, they do.
I just click this.
It just kicks me out to a page that looks like this.
I can add discussions
and it looks like kind of like a forum.
Okay, so I'm gonna say yes,
but then I'm gonna say standalone
because it's not actually integrated into the player.
You have to hit a button to then get
to it in a separate page.
Alright, then the last one we're gonna look at is lynda.com.
And this is what the Linda player looks like.
If you guys have used Lynda before
you probably know the answer to this, which is no
they don't have a discussion tool.
I've looked through this quite a bit and it doesn't appear.
They have note taking tools
but nothing where I can post a question
and have it answered or talk to other students.
It, theirs is a little more two dimensional.
They're the instructor, I am the student
and they are not there.
Alright, onto the next one.
Can we time mark our posts?
So here on Skillshare,
Yes, you actually can.
It's right here and you can add a note
and it will actually time mark where you are
and it'll reference it specifically.
So I'm gonna say yes and I'm gonna put lecture
plus time 'cause I can do either one.
I can either reference the lecture or have this note
reference the actual second that I made the question.
Moving on back over to Coursera, let's look at some
of the discussions and I can tell pretty easily that no
these are not even attached at all to a lecture or a time.
So we're gonna say no.
Udacity, let's look at their discussions.
Ah, again, it's a standalone.
So we go over here, let's see, Linux
let's say command line basics.
Can we tell whether or not they're attached to anything?
If you can't tell very quickly, chances are it's not.
Okay, I don't see anything that says
what lecture they're talking about.
And I'm not even totally sure
what course they're talking about.
I guess it's that one.
So that's a no.
Lynda, we don't have to fill out obviously
'cause they don't have discussions.
So we're just gonna X that out.
Alright, so let's take a tour of the engagement features.
Okay, over here on Skillshare, that looks
like I can like and I can reply.
So relatively simple.
Doesn't look like we have anything more than that
like mentions or linking or threading or anything like that.
Pretty simple.
But they do have engagement features.
So I'm gonna say they have the like and the reply.
On to Coursera.
Let's see what they have.
Well, they actually have a bit more.
They have up-voting.
That's actually kind of cool.
You can vote on questions
and that way the best questions go to the top.
And that helps everybody.
And I can also reply directly to them.
The other thing I noticed is you can also
follow them right over here, which is interesting.
So if I follow a question, when someone answers it
it'll notify me in some way.
So I'm gonna write down voting,
following, and replying.
Onto Udacity.
Okay, let's see what we can do here.
Oh wow, actually quite a lot.
Looks like we can reply, we can favorite it, or like it.
We can link to this or share a link to this post.
We can bookmark it.
Let's see.
And that's about it.
So those are five features, so decent ones.
So I'm gonna write all those down.
Bookmarking, linking, , and liking.
As usual, we're gonna cross off Lynda.
Get your head in the game, Lynda
and go back to Skillshare.
Now the question is, where is the location?
Remember could be important if people can see it or
if it's really close to the player,
put in a way that everyone's gonna use,
that could be an important factor
in whether or not the feature launch is successful.
Well, Skillshare has it down here,
so it's on the same screen
that we're gonna watch the videos on
but it's below the fold.
So I'm gonna say below the fold, which means basically it's
below the point where I have to scroll the webpage.
In Coursera, it's the same thing.
If I'm viewing it like this, I have to scroll down
which means that you know it's important
and it's accessible, but it's not immediately obvious.
I have to kind of look for it.
Udacity, we remember it's a button over here.
It's always present, but it's a tab,
like a separate tab I would have to click on
and then exit out to go to.
And then Lynda, Lynda, Lynda, Lynda
we know what we're gonna say.
Alright, so the last one in Skillshare,
can we post a photo?
I believe you can.
There we go.
See now I post something.
I can put a photo right there and it'll insert it.
Kind of look like that.
My ugly mug.
Coursera, can you insert photos?
I believe you can as well.
There we go.
Now you can see that we have a rich text editor.
You can throw that in there.
Looks like it's the same story here.
If I were to reply to something, it would pop up.
And again, I can put a whole lot of stuff in here.
I can even do custom HTML links
or I can upload something there,
which is probably like an image.
Lynda obviously doesn't do that.
Give it a big X.
Okay, so now we know what
the competitive landscape looks like
with regards to making a discussion button.
You at home, ask yourself this question.
How would you as Udemy build your discussion tool
based off of what you've seen in your competitors?
Would you try to beat them on all different categories
or would you deprioritize the group discussion
because you think you can't win?
Or is it the case that you just want to get something there
so you can say you have it.
It's entirely up to you as a product manager.
You have to make these strategy decisions.
You have the data now to make it.
So make your call, post that in the group discussion.
Let's talk about it.
I'd love to see what you guys come up with.
But for now, I'm gonna fill out what Udemy actually does.
Can you post a group discussion in Udemy?
Let's pretend we're flashing forward.
We've implemented the tool.
Let's answer the question.
So can you?
Yes you can.
It's right there when you're using the viewer
and it is integrated.
Can you add time markings?
No, actually you cannot, sadly
but you can reference the lecture.
So I would say no.
But you can reference lectures.
What engagement features do they have?
Sadly, they only have the basics like and reply
but they do have a search feature
which I did not see on any of the other ones.
We can search through discussions and look for
ones that we want.
Location, it is prominent.
It takes up like one third of the screen and
it's directly on the right.
When you log into a course
it's like the first thing you will see right there.
Hard to ignore it.
And can you post images?
Yes, you can.
Some of you guys don't ever seem to take advantage
of that and it makes me sad, but you can.
Okay, there you go.
Now we've made a table for our features.
Okay, now we can do the the postmortem and decide
do we need to make changes to the feature
we've already implemented?
Is it important?
How far away are we from becoming the best in this category?
And should we care?
Alright, guys.
In the next couple lectures we're gonna talk
about analyzing your competitors.
Things to keep in mind as a product manager to
make sure you're looking in the right direction.
See you in the next lecture.

--- [ACTIVITY] Wunderlist and Their Not-So-Wunderful Dilemma ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Monitoring Competitors ---

-: Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course.
So in the previous lectures in this section
we covered how to find competitors,
gather information on them,
figure out if they're direct or indirect,
and then compare them.
Now, those are all crucial skills
for gathering the information you need to make judgments
on your competitors.
However, competitors are always going to be there
if not forever, at least for a while
and like you, competitors will change.
Competition is an ever changing landscape
and as a good product manager
which is what you want to be, right?
You want to keep tabs on your competition
so that as soon as they make a change,
you can redirect or adjust.
Now remember the five dimensions
that we judge our competitors on.
We have the product team.
How good are they or how bad are they?
We have design, is it pretty?
We have brand.
How important is their brand?
Is it a positive asset for them?
Is it so strong it prevents you from doing things?
How big is their user size?
Is it big or is it just girthy?
And the last one is speed.
How much of it are they on?
Now, those are the five criteria that we wanna keep
in our minds constantly about our competitors
and it's always going to change.
They're gonna make changes
and take initiatives that will increase certain ones
of the five, and sometimes they'll make mistakes
and they'll lose some ground on some of those five
and you need to be there to know when it happens.
So in this lecture, we're gonna cover
three different events that you should
constantly be looking for
and we're gonna cover three different ways
that you can keep tabs on if those events happen.
All right.
Now there obviously a ton
of tiny little things that can happen with your competitors
and it's worthwhile to know
maybe they move a button over here,
maybe they make a big change to their web app.
Whatever it is, it's all worth knowing.
But there are three things as a product manager
that I think stick out more than the others
because they have the ability and the potential
to change all of those five criteria
we previously mentioned.
So the first one is funding.
Now, this is not really something I've talked a ton
about before, but a lot of companies receive money.
If you're in the startup space,
a lot of companies receive venture capital.
The amount of money that's in their bank account
can make an enormous difference
for a number of our five variables.
More money means they can hire more people.
More money means they can spend more money on ads,
means that they can hire more contractors,
they can pay for more press,
so that means that they can dramatically change their speed.
More money also could mean
that they now have more to work with for recruiting
for their product team.
And so you should keep your eye out
in case their product team improves.
It does small changes to brand.
It doesn't necessarily change their design
but it could allow them to bring on
people who can add more design and usability
and it also could
or could not have an effect with user size.
Oftentimes, especially with startups, when they raise money
they do spend a lot
of it on advertisement and growing their user base.
Alright, but how do you know when they get funding?
Where are you supposed to put your ear
to the ground for this?
Well, actually it's pretty easy.
Generally when companies get funded,
there's a website that keeps track of all of that for us,
and it's incredibly useful.
It's called Crunch Base, So let's check it out.
This is what Crunch Base looks like.
Just crunchbase.com.
All they do is keep track of
how much money people have raised.
All you have to do is search up here
for the organization that you're trying to keep tabs on.
Let's say I worked for Spotify, sorry again, Cole.
I wanted to keep track of SoundCloud.
SoundCloud honestly is the least of their worries.
I'd be more worried about Apple Music,
but let's say that we wanted to keep tabs on them.
Right here we can see information about them.
All this stuff is really nice
but the most important thing is it gives us a timeline
of their funding right here.
So not only can we get historical information,
we can also see when this gets updated,
and that'll tell us that they just received
a new round of funding.
So how do I get notified when this happens?
Well, it's pretty easy.
You just hit follow
and then it'll ask you to create an account.
Do that, and then you'll get emails directly
to your inbox every time something major happens
with your competitors, specifically, they're funding.
There you go.
Another thing that Crunch Base is really, really helpful for
happens to be our number two thing
that we want to look out for, and that is acquisitions.
Acquisitions, if you're not familiar,
is when a company buys another company.
Imagine a really big fish and a really small fish
and then the big fish eats the small fish.
Except in this scenario, that small fish actually attaches
to the big fish and makes it larger.
Kind of like the angler fish.
I know that's random, but look it up.
It's the creepiest thing in the world.
What a company buys another company.
They're doing it for a number of reasons
and it usually comes down
to the five reasons that we care about.
Oftentimes, companies will buy another company
because they have a good product team
and they want to integrate that into their own team.
Sometimes they wanna buy a company
because they have a lot of users
and they would like to integrate those users
into their own user base or
at least cross sell them information
or gather information on their users.
Either way, bad for you.
They could also buy them because of design.
There are examples
of companies that have bought other companies to
absorb their design team.
Remember how we talked about Path?
Path got bought for pretty much that reason.
The only other two things,
it doesn't necessarily affect our brand
unless acquisitions are prestigious,
I mean they kind of are, or speed.
Speed is tough.
Oftentimes companies will buy another company
because that company seems to get stuff done really quickly.
But you kind of run into a problem
where larger organizations as a whole
as they get larger and larger, get slower and slower.
So it's ah, I don't know, it's kind of a wash.
How we find acquisitions is you just go here.
That gives us all their acquisitions, gives us the date.
We can actually click through
and read about the company if we want to
and since we're already following it, we will get an update.
It'll even give us the terms of it.
That's pretty cool.
And the last event that we really care about
are feature or new product launches.
Why?
Well, because those are major maneuvers
that your competitors are making
and you absolutely have to know if they're doing it
especially if they make a product or if new feature that is
in some way competing directly with you or copying you.
The best way of keeping tabs on that and a number
of other things, it's a website called mention.com.
Now, it's not free but it is incredibly useful
and it has a free trial, more importantly.
What mention.com does is it
tracks all of your competitor's social media accounts.
It looks at chatter between customers and the company.
It looks for major updates
on the company's blogs, any large seismic shifts.
They will email you and you can even
set your preferences to tell it how often to email.
Only email you when big things happen
or email me anytime anything moves at all.
Let's check out Mention really quickly.
Sign up, it's free
and then you can create your first alert.
So all you wanna do is tell it what you're trying
to train their listening system to.
So we're looking for a competitor.
Tell 'em the name of your competitor.
We'll say SoundCloud.
Oh, there we go.
And move on to the next step.
Here we can set our priorities, what we care about the most.
If you're more concerned
about what they say in their social channels
you can make sure to listen to that more, add more of them.
But we're just looking
for feature changes, product launches.
So when those happen, it's gonna be a seismic shift.
They're gonna have a blog post about it.
They're gonna have a Twitter post
and probably a Facebook post as well.
You'll get one of them.
So just move on.
You can pick what all you want to pull in.
This is incredibly useful for the news setting.
Why?
Because a lot of times you might not see the feature launch
but news will pick up on it
or news will pick up on it way before it launches.
That's really helpful.
Also, for tracking things
like perception which affect their brand.
Move on to check out your results.
We're almost done.
And there we go.
Our account is already set up.
Look, we have 76 new mentions for the alert SoundCloud.
Alright, so it went out
and gathered quite a lot of information about SoundCloud.
It's going back in time.
If I wanted to look at the mentions
I would just go here and then I can just scroll
down this feed and I can check it out.
Here I can search and I can filter through it.
There are a lot of really cool tools
for picking out the signal and the noise, so to speak.
You can set things
like keywords you're looking for, or even exclude keywords.
So certain things don't ever show up in your feed.
You can also, in your settings
change how often they email you
and what type of interactions
they consider important and will notify you about.
Alright, cool.
Mention as a very powerful tool
check out what you can use it for.
You can find 1,000,001 things that you can do with it.
This is fantastic for figuring out when they get money,
when they get acquisitions, and when they launch new things.
And the last thing we're gonna cover is Google alerts.
Google Alerts is not as powerful as Mention
but it's a broader blanket.
All you have to do is type
in the company name that you wanna stock.
And what it's gonna do is it's going to
frequently email you and notify you.
If you wanna do desktop notifications
of anytime new search results show up for your competitor.
That is the broadest sweep you can use.
Incredibly useful though to see how their SEO changes,
to see how anything is popping up, conversations,
things way out there you might not have seen.
All this information, really helpful.
Alright guys.
Keep track of your competitors 'cause if you don't
they might get outta your sights
and it'll come back to bite you later.
Alright, see you in the next lecture.

--- What Do We Ultimately Care About as a PM? ---

-: Hey, everyone.
This section was all about competition and market analysis.
What you learned from Evan's lectures
is stuff that's really vital to understand
if you're developing a new product or company from scratch.
However, if you are a product manager at a company
or looking to get a job as one,
this stuff will be extremely important to understand
from a theoretical level.
Like we've mentioned before,
if you're working as a product manager at a company
and they don't know who their competitors are,
then that's a red flag.
The people you work with and, of course, the executives
will know exactly who the competitors currently are,
or if there are none yet then they will know
who is in a position to start competing with you soon.
The biggest tip I can give you as a product manager
when it comes to competition and market analysis
is to stay on top of industry news
and pay very close attention to the features
that competitors build.
It's also great to look across industries
at similar patterns,
even if the company does not directly compete with you.
Here's an example of that.
If I'm building social features
for an app that lets people read books on their smartphone,
I don't only want to look at other smartphone book apps.
I should also look at other apps that are social in general,
like Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram
to see what they have in common,
how users are interacting with them,
and what I might learn from the lessons
they've already learned,
since they've already been doing social.
Overall, if you're always up to date
on what competitors are doing
and have informed opinions about where they will go next,
you will gain respect from coworkers
and go really far in the role of product management.
So, that's it for this one.
I'll see you all in the next lecture.

--- Section 5: Review & Recap ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- What is Customer Development? ---

-: Hey guys, welcome to the next section.
Super proud of you for making it this far.
Now, in this section,
we're gonna cover a very prominent concept
in startups and large businesses today
called customer development.
Customer development is one of the number one tools
a product manager will use to get any sense
of whether or not you're building the right thing,
what the market will accept,
and what the market will absolutely just reject.
So it's something you have to know.
Now a lot has changed since this book
"The Lean Startup" came out.
Companies, startups, even small businesses
are looking at their markets
and looking at their customers
as well as their business ideas in a radically new way.
If you're unfamiliar with "The Lean Startup",
we cover that later in the course so don't worry.
But the old way of thinking
was that you would sit around,
come up with the best idea
for what you think your market will accept,
then what you would do is you would build that
and push it out to the market.
The attitude in general was that some products
and some new features succeed and some fail.
Such is life,
you go from concept to production to promotion
and that's the entire life cycle.
Now if there's one thing we've learned
from "The Lean Startup",
it's that you can't come up with product ideas in a vacuum.
There's a lot more that goes
into what makes a product successful
and what makes a product unsuccessful.
And that information nugget that you wish you had
before you started building your product
and before you launched it,
is actually held by the customer.
So customer development in a nutshell
is the practice of establishing a continuous
and iterative communication line with your customers
so that you can come up with ideas,
come up with hypotheses,
try them out with your customers, get feedback,
and use that feedback
to inform your product decisions going forward.
Development is that by establishing a line of communication
with your customers,
you can on a constant basis
test and validate your product ideas
with regards to who's gonna buy it
and the market in general.
Now, I know a lot of you guys out there
have heard of customer development
and you probably are thinking,
well, that's part of it, right?
Well, let's talk about customer development really quickly
from an academic sense.
Now customer development is actually a framework
and it was developed by a man named Steve Blank.
He is a professor at Stanford
and a thought leader in startups
and how small companies can disrupt large industries.
The concept as he teaches it
was expounded in his book
called "The Four Steps to the Epiphany".
If that's any hint,
there are four steps to his customer development framework.
Step one is discovery.
Step two is validation.
Step three is creation
and step four is building.
Now he teaches the customer development mindset
as something that permeates every single section
of your product life cycle,
from coming up with the idea
all the way to growing your business.
And this is absolutely true
and product managers do use customer development
in every single section of their business.
But for our purposes in this course,
we're gonna focus on the parts
of the customer development framework
that are actionable and are the most useful,
and that is the customer interview.
As you manage a growing product
or even a budding brand new product,
you're gonna want to increase your product IQ
by understanding the real reasons why your customers
use or do not use your product.
And by doing customer interviews,
we can hear it in their own words
which is incredibly valuable.
So for a product manager or a founding entrepreneur,
customer development is going to look like this.
Now the first step in the process
is that you're gonna come up with an idea.
This is the core nugget
that you're gonna build your enterprise or your product on
and that means that you're gonna instantly go
into the process of validation, trying to figure out
whether or not this is a good idea to build.
At this stage,
you're gonna use customer interviews to figure out
whether or not your product is needed,
whether or not the problem you think you're solving
is a real problem,
and whether or not customers actually have that problem
and are interested in your solution for it.
You're gonna constantly reintroduce this feedback
that you've received into your validation process,
eventually landing at the MVP stage,
and then onto the next stage
which is the actual development
of your first version one product.
Now during the development phase,
you're gonna be using customer interviews
and customer development
as a way of figuring out
what features are the correct ones to build
and how should you prioritize
what goes into your version one
so that you can be efficient
and save resources.
After your version one,
you go into a process
whereby you're gonna start iterating on your product.
You're gonna start improving it, adding features,
changing things that don't work out.
And at this stage,
you're gonna use customer development constantly
to figure out things like,
are customers enjoying the product?
Are they using it correctly?
Who exactly is using the product
and getting the most out of it?
Is it the group that we thought it was?
You'll use this as a tool for figuring out
whether or not you're targeting the right people,
figure out if there's anything that you are missing,
and to give you clues
as to what new features or new avenues
might be open to you.
Customer development is primarily a tool for two things:
one, risk mitigation and two, opportunity recognition.
And that is what you are gonna use custom development for
as a product manager.
So in this section, we're gonna focus
on how do we do that iterative process,
how do we do it correctly?
How do we know if we're getting the right feedback?
Who exactly do we talk to?
And what insights can we get from our interviews?
All right, guys, hope you're excited.
This is an incredibly useful skill you will use
regardless of whether or not you become a product manager.
See you in the next lecture.

--- The Four Types of Interviews ---

-: Hey, guys. Welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture, we're gonna start talking
about the actual customer interviews.
In this lecture,
we're gonna cover four different types of interviews,
talk about why we will be engaging with customers,
what we're trying to get out of them,
and how, in general, these interviews are conducted.
Now, as a product manager,
there are numerous reasons why you will want to engage
with your customers in an interview setting.
Entrepreneurs, on the other hand,
generally will talk to their customers
at the beginning, at the outset,
just to figure out whether or not they're on to something.
And they'll then use that information
to figure out how to build an MVP.
But there are other reasons why you might engage
with a customer, and it kinda just depends
on what you need as an organization, as a product owner,
and where you are in your product's progress.
Now, the first type of interview
is the exploratory interview.
Now, an exploratory interview
is the most free-form interview there is.
The idea here is you're really just waiting out to see,
talking to your customers, trying to establish
whether or not they have certain pain points,
whether or not they're open to certain solutions,
and in general, what do they feel like,
what do they look like, and how do they operate?
The idea here is that you are exploring. You're fishing.
You're trying to find things your customers
have a problem with, are excited about.
You're trying to find things
that they do differently than other people.
You're looking for any little clue or hint
that can give you some type of insight
about the product you already have
or the one that you're building.
This is often something you will do
when you're trying to come up with ideas,
ways of changing your product, ways of expanding it.
You will have a backlog,
but you do have to come up with new ideas.
When you talk to an actual customer,
talk to them about their day,
the context in which they use your product
or could use your product.
They'll give you a million different things
that you could build a solution for.
And the best part about doing this in person
is you can visually see how badly they want this solution
and whether or not they would pay for it.
Here's some example exploratory questions
that you might ask a customer.
Let's say we're using an app
that has to do with getting directions.
I might ask, "What's the worst part of your commute?"
It's an open-ended question,
fishing for some type of pain
and to understand the hierarchy of problems they have
within the context of a certain situation.
Another question I might ask is,
"When you get lost driving, what do you do?"
I'm fishing for substitutes for solving their problem,
and again, they'll color in kind of my picture
of what normal consumers do when they're lost.
Now, the second type of interview
is the validation interview,
and this is by far the most common one.
The purpose of a validation interview
is that you have a theory and you want to test it out.
Your theory might be that users
will go bananas for feature X,
or you might be pre-product
and your theory is that my solution solves their problem.
That is always a theory until you launch,
until you get validation,
and until you reach product-market fit.
Now let's talk about a little bit more
about validation interviews
because they are the biggest deal of them all.
You will do them as a product manager,
and you will do them as an entrepreneur, unavoidable.
Generally, validation interviews are run
in a very specific way.
Because you have a theory
and you want it to be proven or disproven,
you kind of have to run it in a scientific way.
Now, do you think that in a validation interview,
you just walk right in there and say,
"This is my product,
or this is the feature I'm adding.
What do you think? Do you like it?"
If I were standing right in front of your face,
like I am now but coming through the screen,
and I asked you, "Do you like my website,
I spent six months working on it,"
do you think you're more likely to say yes or say no?
You're probably more likely to say yes
because you're probably a decent person
and you want to please me,
and that's generally how human nature works.
Validation interviews are hyper-sensitive to bias,
so much so that they're run in a way
that you don't even introduce your idea,
your theory, your product, your new feature,
till the very, very end.
You'll spend the majority of the interview
talking around the problem your product solves.
When you do introduce it, you don't hype the idea.
You don't defend it. You don't exaggerate what it is.
You simply present it and then collect honest feedback
and try to chart how they react
and how they think after it.
The problem is that if you bias their answers in any way,
if you infringe on their ability to think freely,
even if it's very subtle,
you have essentially ruined the interview.
Any data you got from that is junk. It's poison.
So learn to zip it and let them do the talking.
Let them, in their own words, describe the problem they have
and what they think of your proposed solution.
You'll spend the majority of these interviews
not pushing your customer,
but corralling them in the right direction,
trying your best to get them to talk
about the problem you are trying to solve in their own words
and to see if they themselves find it on their own.
Let's give some examples of a validation-type question.
I might ask you, "Do you ever lose things in your house?"
Followed up by, "Do you ever lose your keys?"
What I'm doing there is I'm asking them
about things they lose in their house,
seeing if they say anything about their keys,
and if they don't, I try to narrow the focus down to keys.
So then I ask them if they lose their keys often
to see if that is actually something they do.
Now, that's a good pre-product question,
but what about a post-product question?
Well, a post-product validation question could be like,
"When you're using our app
and you wanna collaborate with your coworkers,
what do you end up doing?"
This might be on the heel of a feature
that allows them to collaborate within your app,
and you're trying to chart how they solve that problem,
whether or not they have that problem
or it's even something they care about.
The third type of interview
is a satisfaction-oriented interview.
And satisfaction interviews,
they're exactly what they sound like.
You're trying to dig out what parts of your products
are working for your customers
and what parts of your product are not.
You're also trying to gauge, in general,
what they think about your product.
As a product manager,
you need to know whether or not opinions of your product
are going south,
if they're jumping ship and going to your competitors.
But more importantly than just knowing that,
you need to understand why they are.
So get at the root of their dissatisfaction,
or figure out what exactly you are doing right.
Some example questions might be,
"What should we stop doing?"
A great open-ended question,
trying to get them to tell us
what exactly simply is not working.
If something's abrasive,
if something is just going against the grain
for their experience, they'll tell you.
Another one I like to ask is,
"What's one thing I could do
to make this better for you?"
If they have something that is lacking,
they will bring it up.
It's a great way of digging out the number one thing
on the top of their mind
and whatever is most important to them.
Now, the last type of interview is an efficiency interview.
In an efficiency interview,
you're trying to figure out how exactly your product
ingrains into the life of your customer,
and as a function of that,
how can you improve it to better serve its purpose?
You're trying to get an idea for who uses your product.
What do they do on it? When do they use it?
Under what circumstances?
And from that contextual learning,
you can figure out what parts are serving them well,
what parts are unnecessary or inefficient,
and what parts are actually degrading
from what they're trying to do.
You'll fish for things like,
are they using X, Y, and Z feature?
And what are they using X, Y, and Z feature for?
It's very common you'll find people not using your features
or your product exactly like you thought.
When you do find that, that is generally a sign
that something is broken in your process.
Either something's too hard to understand,
or the process is too inefficient,
or you're just targeting the wrong people.
Some example questions you might ask
in an efficiency-type interview is,
"How easy is it for you to use feature X?"
You're just trying to figure out, in their own words,
is this something they enjoy using?
Is it easy for them to use?
Is it easy to understand all of it?
Another question might be something along the lines of,
"If you wanted to do blank,
how would you do it in our product?"
It's always interesting to ask customers
to show you how they would do something,
and you can see at what point in time they got confused,
misdirected, did something wrong,
or figured out something you never thought of.
Okay, so those are the four different types of interviews,
and I know you're asking the question,
well, aren't there interviews that do both
or a combination of them?
And yes, absolutely.
So don't necessarily think of them
as just types of interviews.
They're more the purposes
that you would use an interview for
or whatever your focus is on an interview.
You can definitely do a validation interview
and an efficiency interview in the same setting.
All right, in the next lecture,
we're gonna talk about best practices
when you are talking to your customers.
How can you make good questions?
How can you tell when you're asking the wrong questions?
And what, in general, do you wanna shy away from?
All right, see you in the next lecture.

--- Key Differences in Customer Development ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Hey, so I wanna make a quick pit stop
to talk to you a little bit about how customer development
is going to defer in your career as a product manager.
And this will help you understand how we teach this section.
So one thing you need to understand
about customer development is that it evolves
throughout the life cycle of your product.
You as a product manager,
your role is going to evolve as well
as your product goes from baby, to teenager, to adult.
Now, what you need to be aware of though
in customer development is that there's a very large chasm
or divide between when you're validating a very new product
and reaching out to customers.
Or when you're trying to improve an existing product
with an existing customer base.
Those are two roles that every product manager
will actually have to tackle.
However, we treat them a little bit differently.
Now, when you don't have a product
and you're trying to figure out whether
or not you're going to build a product,
you're primarily going to be running
your customer development
and running your customer development interviews
with potential customers.
And when you have a product, you're gonna be running it
with existing customers.
Now, it doesn't sound like there's a huge difference
but it's actually an enormous difference.
Potential customers do not know you.
They probably don't know of what you're trying to do.
The information you're gonna try
to get out of them is different.
The way that you have to reach out to them is different.
And in the second case, it's also very, very different.
Your customers you're gonna be talking to,
you already know who they are.
Reaching out to them is generally easier.
And when you get them on the line or in person,
it's an entirely different script.
Now, keep this in mind as we go through this section.
Customer development will vary in terms of purpose
but very rarely in terms of form.
We still will use the same guiding principles
we learn in this section for either pre-product
or post product interviews.
The primary difference is the type of information
you're trying to get out of them.
So as we go through this section,
I'm gonna be dividing everything
as pre-product potential customer
and post product existing customer.
And in a couple cases, I'm gonna explain one.
Next lecture, explain the next one.
I suggest you learn both techniques.
But if you only wanna learn the type of situation
you're in right now, say you're an entrepreneur,
and you're launching a new product,
then you can focus on pre-product potential customers.
And if you're someone who knows that you wanna manage
a product that's already existing
you can focus on the other.
But again, I suggest both.
All right, see you in the next lecture.

--- Who You Should Talk To ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hey, guys, welcome back to the course.
So let's, in this lecture,
start the process of customer development.
All right, so in this lecture,
we're gonna cover the first step
of the customer development process.
There are four steps to this,
and I will fill you in as we go.
So step one in the process is figuring out
who exactly we want to talk to in the first place.
Now, you obviously
don't wanna talk to just literally anyone.
You wanna make sure it's either a potential customer
or a customer you already have
that is relevant to the new features
or new products you're trying to launch.
Now, as I explained in the last lecture,
pretty much everything we're gonna do
is divided down the middle
between pre-product and post-product.
So first I'm gonna explain the process
by which we can figure out who we are targeting
and who to interview for pre-product,
and then at the end of the lecture,
we'll cover post-product.
Okay, for the pre-product scenario,
you have not yet created it.
You are probably in the validation section of development.
You're still trying to figure out what should go in it.
Do people actually want it?
Is there a market?
Now, in 90% of circumstances,
you probably in your head
have already thought of a target group of people
that you think this new product is going to appeal to.
If that's the case, then you're a step ahead.
Take the idea that you have and write it down.
We're gonna try to get to
at least three potential groups of people to talk to.
Now, if you're sitting there right now,
and you have absolutely no idea who
a potential customer for your new product is going to be,
I would be worried.
You're in a situation
where we call a solution looking for a problem,
and I hope the next exercise we go through
will be beneficial.
Now, I want you to write down at least a minimum
of three different types of customers or customer groups
that you think would find your product appealing.
Why do I ask for three?
Well, because any product out there
is going to appeal to not just one type of customer.
It's going to have appeal to other types as well.
It might not be as strong, but it still has an appeal.
Now, write down the customer groups
you think answer that question.
Once you have three, then we're gonna decide
which of these three is worth targeting first.
And we're gonna do that by playing a game
called three question stud.
I just made it up.
Three question stud is based
off of the game five card stud.
And if anyone plays poker and has played five card stud,
you know it's the dumbest game in poker.
But for our purposes of figuring out who to target,
this metaphor works perfectly.
Now, the reason I call this three card stud
is that we're gonna judge our potential customer groups
on three different criteria,
and much like a game of stud,
you get three criteria, three ratings, and that is it.
If you're playing three card stud in real life,
like the poker game,
you would get three cards,
your opponent would get three cards.
You would look at them.
Whichever one adds up to more or as a pair or whatever wins.
That's it.
Now, the first step in this game
is to ask yourself a question
and then answer it to yourself.
Your product solves a problem for someone,
and that is the case with 100% of new products.
If you think about it long enough,
you will think of a problem that it solves.
Google Map solves the problem
of I don't know how to get where I'm going.
I get lost easily.
And even frivolous things like mobile app games,
those solve the problem
of being bored during short periods of time
where you can't engage in other things.
So once you figured out what the problem is,
ask yourself the question, who has this problem?
Now, if you dwell on that,
you should be able to come up with at least a couple answers
to that question.
Now, they might be customer groups
you've never even considered,
and obviously it'll be the ones
that you probably had in the back of your mind.
All right, so grab a pen and a piece of paper
or an Excel sheet or a Word document,
Evernote doc, whatever it is
that you're using to capture your ideas and your thoughts.
Draw a table and make it three columns and three rows.
Now on the top, we're gonna write our customer groups,
customer group one, customer group two,
and customer group three.
Fill in the actual names
of the ones you previously came up with.
Now on the left side,
we're gonna write down the three criteria,
and this is pretty much the name of the game.
So the number one we're gonna write is size,
the second one we're gonna write is called pain to payment,
and the third one we write is accessibility.
Together, these criteria are probably the fastest
and the most relevant criteria to use
to determine who is actually worth going after right now.
Now, size might not be obvious.
When I say size, I mean market size.
Think of the customer group you are talking about.
How big is your customer group?
Is it something that has thousands of people
or millions of people?
Let's say you were building a system
that helped property developers and real estate agents
and those were the two that you were going after,
people who run property development companies, like CEOs,
and real estate agents.
How many CEOs in the world are there
that run real estate or property development companies?
And conversely, how many real estate agents are there?
So in the first case, there's not a lot of them.
So that customer group would rate low on this criteria.
And the second one, real estate agents,
there's a bajillion of them, so this would rate high.
Now, the second criteria, pain to payment, this is a ratio.
Now I want you to think about each customer group
and think about how much pain do they have
associated with the problem you are trying to solve.
Someone who constantly gets lost in the city
probably has a decent level of pain,
and someone who is bored waiting for their doctor,
that's not a huge level of pain.
Now, the second part of this criteria is payment.
How likely are they to pay you for this service?
And if they are willing to pay you,
are they willing to pay you a lot of money
or a little bit of money?
And based off of those two,
you can kind of come up with a good ratio or a bad ratio.
High pain, high payment is very good.
Low pain, low payment is quite poor.
In the Google Maps example, we have high pain,
but we have very low payment,
because there's tons and tons of free options out there,
so it actually would rate somewhere in the middle,
and with a mobile app game,
again, we have low pain, and payment is also quite low.
You rarely pay more than, say, $5 for a mobile app game.
And the last one is accessibility.
And accessibility just means
how easily can you get in contact with these people?
Are they easy to find?
Do they have their contact information posted somewhere?
Are they used to receiving queries from the outside world,
and responding to them?
To go back to that first example,
CEOs of property development companies, very inaccessible.
Their information's not gonna be public,
and if you email them, they're probably not gonna respond.
They are trained to do that.
They get too much email, and that's not their job.
Whereas real estate agents publicly post their information.
They do that on purpose,
and they are very used to responding quickly
to people who inquire from the outside world,
because that is part of their job.
All right, and quickly try to think about each criteria
and each customer group.
Give them a reading from one to 10,
or if you want to do it based on the card metaphor,
one through 10, or jack, queen, king, ace.
And then at the bottom,
I want you to add up the value of your hand
or the value of your one through 10 total.
One of those will have a higher number than the other two,
and that's how we know this customer group
has the most potential,
and we're probably gonna be the most successful
reaching out to them.
All right, you got it?
Just answer the question
of what problem does your product solve?
Who has that problem?
And once you have three groups,
try to evaluate them on three criteria,
size, pain to payment, and accessibility.
All right, now for the post-product people,
if you are post-product,
that means you already have an established customer base.
You probably have people who are paying
and engaging with your product,
and you probably also have a lot of prospective leads
and prospective customers
that have already established themselves
as being interested in your product.
In this case, who do you interview?
Well, it's actually relatively simple.
Think about the product that you are proposing to launch
or the feature you're trying to add
or the problems you were trying to smooth out
in your existing product line.
Try to think of it in terms of your user base.
Try to apply basic demographics.
Are they older people that you're going to be targeting?
Are they younger people?
Are they married people?
Are they people that have slow internet?
Try to think of basic demographic data.
Use that information,
and then filter out your customer group
and reach out to them.
That one is infinitely easier,
because you have a big pile of customers
and you just need to decide which ones
are probably gonna give you better information.
Whatever problem you're trying to fix
or whatever initiative you're trying to run
probably pertains to some defined group
within that customer base,
and it's your job to pick them out and contact them.
All right, guys.
In the next lecture, we're gonna do a example
of playing three card stud with a real idea.
If you guys don't care, you think you got the idea,
skip over that into step two,
where we start talking about finding potential interviewees.
All right, see you then.

--- Finding Interviewees Externally ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
All right, we're moving on to step two
of the customer development process
finding your potential interviewees.
Now, you can't obviously gather feedback about your product
or your proposed product
without actually talking to a potential
or an existing customer.
In this lecture, we're gonna talk
about pre-product scenarios
when we're looking for new customers
or people that are not already aware of us to interview.
Now, there are a lot of different places online
or offline that you can go to connect with people
that might be interested in your product, but for our sake,
I've reduced it down to four different places
or types of places to look that consistently can find you
people that are interested.
Now, in the resources of this lecture
I actually attached a great article
called 96 Different Ways to Find People to Interview.
And they go through literally every single little thing
you can think of.
If you wanna read that, check it out.
It's a little overkill for us.
Now at this stage of the game
you know which target customer group
you would like to talk to
because we played three questions stud
and you identified one of the three
as probably more worthwhile to go after
and one that you'll have more success reaching out to.
Now, the first place
and I think probably the best place
to start reaching out to potential customers
that you can talk to is LinkedIn.
I'm sure most of you guys are familiar with LinkedIn,
it's an online social network
that is primarily for networking.
It holds a lot of information about the people that sign up
and a lot of that information is public.
We generally get to see where people go to school,
what their job is,
what they've done in the past, where they live.
We also know generally interests they're in
and groups they participate in.
We also have endorsements that show us what skills they have
so that it's a treasure chest of different ways
that you can narrow down on exactly the target customer
you have in mind.
Now, for those of you out there that have a LinkedIn account
and you have lots of connections, this works extremely well.
For those of you that have an account,
but don't have a lot of connections,
it still works very well.
And for those of you that don't have an account,
I suggest creating one
and connecting with some of the people you know.
It really will only take you 10, 15 minutes
and by this time tomorrow,
you can actually use it to find people.
Now, the best way to use LinkedIn
is actually just to use their search feature.
Now, what the search feature is going to do
is it's gonna search based off of your connections
and then your connections connections.
That's why I say,
if you only have a medium amount of connections,
only 50 people, 20 people,
it still works because as long as you're connected to people
that have a lot of them, then the search
has quite a large group of people to look through.
So if you define your customer group by,
let's say their job type, this is perfect.
You define it based off of their education,
where they went to school, what location they live in.
This also works very well.
So let's use the example of the real estate agents.
If we were building a product
that went after real estate agents or appealed to them,
all they have to do is in the search bar
just type in real estate agent and right at the top it says,
I can pick between people, jobs, and groups.
Those are all very helpful,
but I'm probably just gonna pick people
cause these are actually gonna show me people
that have it in their title,
meaning right now they are a real estate agent
and it'll give me an extensive list of people.
All right, so right off the bat,
I have a tons and tons of people that I could reach out to.
If I then wanted to add some criteria about where they live,
I can use filtering criteria over here.
So maybe I only want to interview people
that are near where I live in San Francisco.
All right, now I have a very good list of people
that I could start to connect with.
I could add in more criteria if I wanted to,
but for our sake, let's not.
Now, if I wanted to contact these people,
the way that you would use LinkedIn
is through one of two means.
One is you can send them what's called an InMail.
An InMail is a message
that goes directly to their message system.
Now, this is a paid option.
I don't think you pay a lot of money for it.
You probably have to do a subscription package
and it gives you a certain amount of InMails.
If this is something you frequently use,
then it's definitely worth doing.
So the second option is to just connect with them
because when you connect with them,
it'll give you the option of writing a message.
So click through to the profile
and then you can hit connect.
And in the message down here,
I can write something along the lines of,
this is what I'm doing and I would like to talk to you.
We covered that in the next lecture.
How do we get them to actually talk to us?
If they don't see this,
they still will probably connect with you.
At which point you can then send them a direct message
and that doesn't cost any money.
All right.
So the number two place that we're gonna cover are forums.
Now, what do I mean by forums?
Well, forums are generally just online communities
that are all built around some kind of theme.
Pretty much any type of affiliation or job
or interest you can think of has a forum
or an online community dedicated to it.
And the reason forums work so well
is because it's a bunch of people
talking about whatever subject or topic you picked,
and it's very easy to search them or find people
that have a problem that you are trying to solve,
have experience in the area you're trying to go into.
It's pretty much easy pickings
cause people will talk about what they're interested in
and they'll self-identify themselves.
The first place I like to start as a website called Reddit.
If you ever heard of Reddit, it's an online forum
and it's absolutely massive.
It's an online community, and the way that it works
is it's actually tons and tons of forums
inside of one forum.
Reddit calls these sub forums, subreddits
and every subreddit in this website
is going to be based off of some type of theme
or topic or subject.
So if you can identify some of the things
that your target customer group have in common,
are interested in or anything that they would affiliate with
you can find a subreddit for that.
The best way of doing that
is to search through their search box
and it'll give you list of subreddits
or what you can do is actually search through Google
and if you use the code site:reddit.com
and then followed by searching for the topic you want,
you can do it that way as well.
Sometimes Google's actually better than Reddit.
So let's see how this works for the real estate idea.
All I'd have to do is say real estate agents right there
and see if it shows me.
And then right off the bat, we have subreddits right here
and it gives you some gauge of how many people are in it.
For the most part,
I can dive into any one of these, start looking around,
start interacting, and then start reaching out to people.
Another great option is a website called Quora.
Now Quora, spelled Q-U-O-R-A.com
is essentially Yahoo answers, but for adults
it's a website where people will ask questions
and then people who have expertise in that subject
will answer them.
And it's a website where people kind of trip over each other
to give the best answer.
But because so many people
have asked so many different questions,
what you can do is look for specific topics
or groups of questions and then look at the people
that are constantly talking in them, answering questions,
interacting and replying.
So I could search for real estate agents
and then right there I can pick the actual topic.
So it's gonna show me all the questions
related to real estate agents.
So all it had have to do is just jump into any one of these
and see if the people that are asking the question
or answering the question
are people that fit my target demographic.
If they are, I can then message them
and try to make a connection.
All right.
The third place that I suggest using
to find potential customers to interview is Twitter.
Twitter is fantastic as a resource for finding people
that might be interested in your service.
The reason why it's so effective at this
is similar to the reason why forums are
in that people are constantly talking on it
and people are constantly self-identifying themselves
with things they're interested in,
things they affiliate themselves with
and what they do for a living.
Twitter's also just a gigantic, complaining fest
which is great because you can find people
that potentially have the problem you're trying to solve
and reach out to them.
What you're actually searching through
when you use this feature is what people are saying
and not specific details about the person.
So if I said real estate agent,
it might not actually be as effective.
Why?
Because real estate agents on Twitter
probably aren't saying real estate agent over
and over and over again.
It might still work, but it's more effective
to think about things they might be saying
and then search for that.
So a real estate agent might be saying something
along the lines of looking to buy a home
and then we can scroll down
and it looks like right off the bat,
here's someone that says, looking for a home?
Are you looking for a home?
Lots of people here are self-identifying
and the first one we captured right here,
he works as a real estate agent.
See how that worked?
Now that we know who they are, we can tweet at them
or we can try to follow them
in the hopes that they follow us back,
at which point we can send them a direct message.
All right, and the last go-to place
for finding potential customers
is it's actually your competitors.
Okay.
90% of the time when you're launching a new product,
they're probably going to be competitors already there.
And if they're not doing the exact same thing,
they're probably doing
at least part of what you propose to do
or they're just servicing the same target customer group.
If you can identify your potential competitors
right out of the gate, well, then it's relatively easy
to just go to their social media pages, see who is engaging
and you can then figure out
that those people probably are customers
or are interested customers for your competitor
and you can contact them.
Let's say we were doing that real estate business
never said what it was,
but let's say one of our competitors was Opendoor.
It's a relatively well known startup.
We can find their page on Twitter
and then just look for who is interacting with it.
We can see who is liking their page.
There's someone who likes it, there's someone who likes it
and these are people that interact with their page.
We can then go through these people's pages
and contact 'em in the same way.
Now, this works the same for Facebook.
This works the same for Twitter.
If your competitor has a blog, you can also go on there
and find people who are commenting on their blog.
That is also a gold mine
for finding potential people to talk to.
All right, so as of today,
those are the four main categories
product managers are probably going to use
to reach out to potential customers that they can interview.
If you need more or are interested, check out the resources.
Otherwise, we're gonna move on to step three,
which is how exactly do you get these people to talk to you?
All right, see you then.

--- Finding Interviewees Internally ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So, last lecture we talked about where can you find
and drill down on potential customers that you can interview
if you're in a scenario where you are pre-product
or pre-launch.
So the other side of the coin
to this is, what do you do when you are post product?
Let's say you have some ideas for things to add
to a product you already have.
You have a feature list, you have a roadmap,
you have a backlog.
The customer development framework tells us
that we need to get out of the building
and start talking to our customers.
But, where do we find the customers?
Now all you at home are probably thinking,
well isn't this a little more obvious?
And you're right, it is more obvious, presumably
if you're post product, you have a list of customers,
a list of free users, and potentially a list of people
that have demonstrated interest in your product.
Even if you're relatively new, you only launched not
that long ago you'll still have what are called,
early evangelists which are people that use it as
if it were a version for polished product
and they just love it.
Regardless of where you are
in this product development process,
there are customers you can interview.
Now, the most obvious thing is that why don't you just go
and look at the list of customers and just go that route?
Now, you can do that.
You can just tap someone on the shoulder
and say, "Hey, I need the list of all the emails
of all of our users and let me contact them."
Well, there's two downsides to doing that.
One is that, it comes off very spammy
and it actually can break your terms and agreement.
So you need to make sure that that's within the bounds
of spam and what's just not gonna annoy the crap out
of people.
The other thing is
that you're gonna have a harder time getting people to talk
to you just because this is a cold email.
This is as a cold as it would get.
You're just emailing them 'cause you saw their email
on a list.
It'd be hard even to customize it for them.
So you can by all means, just send
out an email blast to your user base
and you will get interviews that way.
But, in this lecture we're gonna focus
on four ways to get warm leads that will save you some time
with regards to finding them and getting them to talk to you
and is probably going to get you better customers
to talk to.
In general, some of the best customers to talk to are ones
that have already pointed themselves out as people
that are enthusiastic or interested or have a problem
with something in your product.
People that have opinions and people that are invested
in your product enough to have one
of those two emotions are going
to give you a much bigger bounty of information.
Now the first way of going about this is
by using your company's live chat feature.
Now, a lot of companies,
startups even large businesses use live chat systems.
Live chat systems are exactly what they sound like.
You can chat with someone in the company live, by clicking
on a box, usually in the bottom right of your screen.
Whether it's Olark or Tawk to or one
of the more complicated ones like intercom.io.
If you have them, then you have a wealth of information
from which you can choose ideal customers to reach out to.
So if you have a live chat system, great, continue on.
Now, there's two ways of going about this.
One is the passive and one is the active.
In the passive approach, what you wanna do is essentially go
and ask to see the chat logs from your customers
and what they're saying and what questions they're asking.
It's really interesting stuff on its own
but, what you can do is you can look
at what people are saying and try to find individual people
that meet your target demo.
Then when you message them you can pull information
from their chat log, make it sound
like a continuation of the conversation.
People are much more likely to respond to that
and you get plus points for customer service.
Now the other approach is the more active version.
A lot of live chat systems, the vast majority
of them have the functionality that allows them
to force themselves on your screen.
So, you might have seen this before.
If you're ever on a website and you have something pop up
as you go to another subpage
and it usually says something
like, do you need help finding something?
You say yes or no.
You say yes, it automatically connects you.
If you have
that functionality, you can definitely find people
that appear to be doing things that you think would fit
into your target demo or you can look
for specific users when they get online
or you can just do it at random.
When you force a conversation then you can pop up,
you can talk to them and go that route.
Alternatively, if you don't have that capability,
that's fine.
A much simpler version of this active approach is either
to sit in on the customer service live chats,
if you're in a small organizations is very easy.
Or ask someone who is in customer service to
at the very end of their chats,
once they've solved the problem just simply ask them
if they would be willing to talk
to someone in a product management role for 10 minutes.
It's very similar to when you call the bank and they say,
after your phone call would you like
to take a five minute survey?
Yes or no?
A lot of people say no, but a lot of people say yes.
So don't ignore the live chat. This is some potent stuff.
These people have self-identified themselves
as being engaged with your product.
The second treasure trove where you can go
to get people to interview is your blog.
Now, most companies have blogs.
If you don't have a blog nowadays it's kind
of the exception.
It's kind of standard practice it seems like.
So, if you have a blog, a lot of blogs allow commenting.
So, it's rather simple.
Look at the people who are commenting on your blog.
If you don't have a blog, look for people who are commenting
on your outside external press.
Those people have something to say about your product.
They're probably users and also you have this advantage.
They want to be heard, okay?
And that's the reason why they're posting on your blog
to begin with.
They have something to say.
No one posts a comment, it's entirely passive
that says nothing.
They always want to be heard.
And if you message those people, email them
and say "Would you like to talk
for 10 minutes about the product?"
They will feel special and it will convert.
Now a third area to consider are power users.
So we previously established that you probably have a list
of all of your customers and
if your organization even slightly knows what they're doing
they're probably collecting information on each user.
So, all you have to do is look specifically for power users.
Now you can segment power users
by a number of different things.
You can look for them based off of frequency.
How often do they use your application?
And that's generally a very good metric.
People who are only casual about your product,
probably don't log in very often
and they probably don't use the features very often.
These are very easy things to track.
Be very surprised
if your organization was not tracking them.
You could also look for things like high engagement
and every organization has a different definition
of engagement.
It could be buying things often,
it could be sending messages often, it could just be people
that use it frequently and message your own company often.
So don't neglect power users.
They are in general more informed about your product.
They spend more time using it.
And here's the catch, they're more invested in your product.
So if you say
to them, "Let's have a conversation about improving it."
There's a very good chance they'll be interested in that.
And the last one is Twitter.
I love using Twitter for talking to customers
because it's fantastic for that.
It's just an online machine for conversations.
Twitter is a gold mine for reaching out to these people
and it's really simple.
You guys probably have a Twitter account.
Just look at who is tweeting at you, who is replying,
who is liking, and who is sharing your posts.
Chances are they already follow you,
which means you can direct message them.
Those messages get answered almost all of the time.
So they've essentially self-identified themselves
as saying, "Hey, we like your product enough
to spend time talking about it or engaging with you."
They have their foot
in the door, they're probably going to talk to you.
Okay guys, so those were four different ways
that you within an organization and
with a preexisting product,
can pick out customers who are most likely to respond
to you and give you better information than
if you pick someone at random.
So use those four tricks yourself live chat, commenters,
Twitter, and look for power users.
In the next lecture, we're moving on
to step three, which is getting them to talk to us
and it's a very weird dance.
All right, see you then.

--- How to Get Them to Talk ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So now that we've identified who you want to interview,
we're gonna talk about how do you get them to talk?
Now a lot of people think if I just message someone
out of the blue, why would they respond to me?
Why would they give me their time just because?
So in this lecture, we're gonna address that.
We're gonna go over three principles
to live by when asking to interview a customer
and some two bonus tips that'll put you over the edge.
To those of you that nodded
when I said why would they actually contact us?
Well, you know, let's talk about it.
It's rather obvious that if you're cold emailing someone,
even if you use the techniques that we covered
in the last two lectures,
it's still a relatively cold email.
They have no personal connection to you
and we all know how we treat emails
from people we don't know, right?
You probably don't remember them.
They go to spam,
or you delete them faster than you can even notice.
The thing is, in general with cold emailing,
you have to think of it kind of from
the perspective of investment.
If someone doesn't know you,
they may be willing to read your email,
but they are not going to be willing
to invest the time to read the entire thing.
If they're talking to a friend
and a friend let's say, emails them,
they'll probably read a page right before spacing out.
But if someone emails 'em, they have no idea who you are,
and they're not referring to any previous conversation,
they might give you a couple sentences.
This can be overcome and it's relatively easy.
So, let's talk about three things to live by,
three tenants of cold emailing.
If you follow these three,
you will have a dramatic increase
in the number of people that respond.
Side note though, to put this in perspective,
we generally have a ratio three to one
which we use to reference how many people you contact
and how many people respond.
Now, obviously this is a generalization,
but set your expectations like that.
If you message 10 people and three people respond,
don't get mad at the other seven.
It's just the case that
you generally have to message three times
as many people that you want to interview.
And also keep in mind,
let's say you want to interview 10 people,
how many people should you message?
Probably 30, maybe more to be safe.
Anyway, enough of that.
Let's back to the three main tenants.
Okay, so the number one tenant when contacting someone
in a cold connection type situation is be short.
You probably figured this out
'cause I was just talking about
how people aren't gonna give you a lot of time investment.
So, being short is incredibly important.
It's one of the biggest mistakes I see people making.
They'll message someone that they want to contact
and they'll send pages and pages.
This happens to me all the time.
Somehow people get my email address
and send me something, and it's three pages long.
It's ridiculous.
No one under any circumstance is going to read that.
So focus yourself on brevity.
Now, what do I mean specifically when I say short?
How short is short?
Should it be like a tweet or is short like four paragraphs?
Short generally means closer to the tweet
than the five paragraphs.
I like to think of it in terms of four to seven sentences.
If you can get it away in four, that's great,
but seven is the absolute maximum.
Anything over that
and you'll see your response rates just plummet.
Number two, be personal.
People do not want to be emailed from a robot.
We don't like talking to robots.
If I even sniff or have the tiniest little inkling
that this is an autogenerated email,
that dramatically lowers the chances of me responding to it.
Now, you're not going to be messaging millions of people
or even thousands of people,
so there's really no excuse for not adding
at least a tiny bit of personalization.
The most effective way of being personal
is by responding to how you found them, okay?
If this is a person you found
on Twitter complaining about something,
you need to immediately make a connection to that.
Say that you saw that they had this problem,
you recognize that it's a problem,
and then you go into the asking them to talk to you.
That email cannot possibly be autogenerated.
People are much more likely to respond
if they actually think you typed it out
and you don't have to type every single one out.
You can make a semi template
where you're only modifying one or two sentences
of the four to seven,
but you have to write those one to two.
If you found someone who wrote a blog piece
and you're connecting with them,
then you need to say something about their piece
that you had a connection with, that you responded to.
Point out some kind of connection
between something they mentioned
and something you've experienced yourself.
And the last tenant of cold emailing is be valuable.
Yes, you are correct in saying that everyone out there
for the most part will consider their own self-interest
when answering your email and thinking about
whether or not they want to spend time talking to you.
Now, I'm not saying that you have to bribe
every single person that you talk to,
but you need to show that having this conversation with you
is valuable in some way to them.
Now that could be abstract things
as simple as it would help our organization out.
A lot of people want to feel altruistic.
They wanna feel like they're helping.
That ultimately is valuable to them.
Telling them that you value their input
and there's a high likelihood that you'll act on it,
makes them feel like they actually
have an effect on the organization.
It's not like voting for the president.
This actually matters.
And yes, of course, you can offer to incentivize them,
and that's something that you're almost always
gonna try at some point.
It is very effective and it is something
you can use to quickly get people to agree to talk to you.
But it's not the case that you have to grease the wheel
for every single person.
You can appeal to their better self.
Okay, got it.
You open up that email client,
you better make sure you are four to seven sentence short,
short, short, short.
You better make sure that you sound personal,
not like a robot that just autogenerated this.
You need to connect it to something they did
or something you've experienced that is similar to them.
It needs to be customized and it needs to be valuable.
Why should they spend time talking to you?
You can butter them up with money
and gift cards if you want,
but you can also just appeal to the fact that
they could help you out
and a lot of people are okay with that.
Now, before you run out there
and just start willy-nilly emailing people
to see if they'll talk to you,
there's two other tips that I want to give you
that'll really put you over the top as a product manager.
Two other things that I really insist on
trying to fit into cold emails is, one,
make sure that you mention that you're not from sales.
That is an amazing advantage to you.
I would say 60% of the people that don't respond
just think that it's because if they talk to you,
you're gonna try to sell them something.
So if you say you're not in sales,
you're in a different department or a different role,
the title of product manager is very innocuous.
No one's gonna think that at the end of this conversation,
you're gonna pitch them on a timeshare condo in Florida.
This is an advantage that is specific to you
and even founders of companies can't do this.
They can't say I'm not in sales,
because if they're the ones emailing people,
that's because they don't have any salespeople
or have product managers and founders do a lot of selling,
so it doesn't really work that way.
The second thing that'll really increase your chances
of connecting are make them feel special.
You really need to emphasize that
you want to understand their specific problems,
and build products that fix their problems,
and that they can help you get there.
That sort of Neo you are the only one
type kind of conversation makes them feel like, well,
I'm the only one who can actually help them.
This is really a waste if I don't.
Alternatively, you can make it sound like the reason
why you're reaching out to them
is because they have done something right.
Give them the VIP treatment.
Make it sound like, you know,
we listen to you more than we listen to other people.
I bet you didn't know this, but Udemy actually does this.
They use the VIP treatment to get feedback from people.
They actually have an account manager system
that is only offered to a very select group of instructors.
So make them feel special.
Make it sound like you are giving them special treatment.
They have information
that is more valuable than anybody else.
They will melt for it, especially if they're power users.
All right guys, we've covered the concepts
of how to get them to talk to you.
In the next lecture, let's actually start doing it.
I'll open up an email client
and show you how these three principles to tips
translate into actual email communication.
All right, see you then.

--- Practice Writing Emails ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
how do you reach out and get these potential customers
or customers you already have
to connect with you and give you feedback.
It's a bit of an ask to get someone
either on the phone or in person.
So need to have some skill with it.
So let's get some practice in the actual realm
where you're going to be contacting them, your email client.
So I just kinda whipped open this email right here
and we can use this as a practicing space.
I wrote at the bottom
remember the three things, short, personable, and valuable.
We need to be short,
four to seven sentences, less is more.
Personal, we need to make sure that whatever we say
to the person is specific to them
doesn't feel like a robot is saying it.
And valuable, we need to highlight
that they can get some sort of benefit from talking to us.
Alright, building off of what we said in the last lecture
on how in general people are probably gonna read only one
or two sentences of what you send them.
Since this is a cold email
we need to front load our emails and make sure
that whatever we write that's personal to them
we make sure that's at the beginning.
You can make a crucial mistake
by using your template at the beginning of your email.
That's what they read.
They think it's an auto system sending it
to them and they bail.
So the first thing you want to do is write
one to two sentences of an introduction.
Now, when I say introduction
I don't mean introduce yourself necessarily.
One of the things that people generally dislike is
that in the first couple of sentences
they hear you talk about yourself and not them.
That's another crucial mistake people make
when reaching out to people.
They make it all about me, me, me, me, me.
When in reality it needs to be
about the person who's receiving it
because they're the ones that are, you know
you're asking them to respond.
This is where we get personal
and whatever you write here, it needs to be specific.
I read your blog post on blank.
It was great.
I've noticed that you are struggling
with X feature and our product.
I saw that you had a problem with this.
A lot of people have that problem and I'd like to help you.
The next thing you want to do is generally
write two sentences of why you want to talk.
Now this is your opportunity to insert the value portion
of your email.
Once they get to this section
this is where you kind of hook them in
and give them an incentive to actually respond.
Now, two classic go-to ways of adding value
in these these cold emails is to do one of two things.
One, you can say, you know
I think I can help you use our product better,
in the case of a post-product customer
or in the case of a pre-product potential customer
you say something along the lines
of how you specifically want to solve their problem.
Those always seem to be the go-to sentences.
You see this pretty much everywhere.
If you've ever received an email, they probably said
that I would like to solve this problem for you
or I can show you how you can get more out of our product.
Alternatively, if you didn't wanna use those two
you can go a different route.
Now, there are three different avenues
or paths I think you can use that are quite effective.
One is instead of just saying generically
you have a problem, I wanna solve it, you appeal to pride.
Pride is a very, very useful thing to use
when you want someone to respond to you.
What I mean is you have the opportunity to say things like
you appear to be an expert on blank.
You would be able to give us so much valuable information.
Everyone likes to hear that someone has recognized
you know more information or you are better
in some way than everybody else.
If you wanna appeal to the pride of
someone who's an existing customer
you could say things like
you have been a customer so much longer
than all of our other customers
or it seems like you understand our product much better
than other customers.
And that relates back
to what we talked in the previous lecture.
Make them feel special.
That is one technique that is always open to you
as a product manager and it is very effective.
The second avenue you can go down is appeal to money.
You can use this section,
this two sentence section to say why you want to talk
and then incentivize them by saying that there's some sort
of monetary reward at the end of that rainbow.
Who doesn't like money?
The third thing you can do is imply association.
So what I mean by association is you can imply
that you know people or are well situated
in a space that the person you're emailing cares about.
Oftentimes what you can do is you can look
at their LinkedIn profile, see what space they're in
and you can imply that by connecting with you
you know a lot of other people, that in itself is valuable.
Some people do that.
Some people are more than willing to talk just
because they think you're a valuable contact.
After that we have one last thing that you want to do
and this one is amazingly crucial.
The last thing you wanna do is schedule a time.
Now do you say, are you willing to talk?
No.
Do you say, do you have any time next week?
No.
What you say is, are you available
Wednesday at 3:30 PM Pacific Standard Standard time?
What you're doing here is you're reducing the friction
in between them responding and talking to you.
If you say next week and they're interested
the next time they'll say yes, which day
and you'll say, how about Tuesday?
And they'll say, great, propose a time.
It just goes on and on and on.
Went from one email to six emails.
If you just pick a time and say it
they're much more likely to say yes
and you don't run the risk of losing them
throughout that process of trying to schedule them.
Don't forget that one.
You've probably seen that technique in your inbox.
Another pro tip you can use
in conjunction with this is use some
of those online scheduling is like Calendly.
There's a ton of them
where you don't even have to suggest a time
you just let them click through and pick a time.
All right, so let's look at a well crafted email
that follows that same template we just went over.
All right, so it says, hi Sam.
I read your article
on volunteering your professional skills in Guatemala.
It was really inspiring.
I'm looking to travel more and you've got me thinking
about incorporating volunteering when I do.
So right there, that is two sentences.
It's personal.
It connects it to his article on volunteering in Guatemala.
You showed that you read their article
and you understood it and you were responding because of it.
Now, the next sentence is what we call the value section.
It's just divided for purposes of reading it.
It looks like they still used two sentences
but they said, I have a software company trying to
improve remote medical record coding, and then it says
I'm not looking to sell anything.
But since you have so much expertise with remote coding
I'd love to get your advice on our products
so we don't build the wrong thing.
This is a masterful set of sentences.
Whenever someone sees, I have a software company
dot, dot, dot, they usually cringe.
But if it's followed
by trying to improve remote record coding
which is something you do and probably are frustrated with,
it instantly sounds like
this could be something that is game changing
then they move on.
And we use that technique where they said, I'm not in sales.
I'm not trying to sell you something.
And then they appeal
to their pride by saying, you have expertise.
So it's a value of responding to this email.
Well, it is the fact that one, you can help them.
Two, you have a specific expertise that would benefit them
more than talking to someone else.
And three, and this is the big one, they're building
something that could actually solve your problems.
And then the last one is, if you're available
I'd love to chat for just 20 minutes Thursday
or Friday morning.
You know what I'm gonna complain about in that one?
They didn't specifically say a time or a set of times
but that's pretty good.
You also noticed that this came in at six sentences
so it's very well within our four to seven guideline.
All right, guys
go out there and shoot off some emails in into the wild.
Just make sure that you follow this format
or at least you stick to the core principles
of being short, personal, and valuable.
If you want to use this template
start with an introduction, then add value,
then schedule them, make it short, make it valuable.
All right guys, see you in the next lecture.

--- How to Run a Customer Interview Correctly ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture, we're gonna talk about
what are some of the best practices
with regards to talking to your customers
and running customer interviews.
Now, you need to talk to your customers
in order to make great products.
That is unavoidable.
But in order to collect the right information
and get the right signals for your product,
you need to know how to talk to your customers
and what not to do.
Now, customer interviews are not as intuitive as you think.
You might think that the point of a customer interview
is to just sit down, have a conversation,
talk to them about your product,
see how they react, pitch them on whatever new feature
or idea you're rolling around in your head.
Now, that's not even remotely true.
The only thing that was true in that
is that you are sitting down with the customer.
I would hardly call it a conversation.
It is an interview.
Now, what's the actual purpose
of running a customer interview?
Well, it's to get the most real
and accurate information as you can from your customer.
If you just sit down and start rattling off pitches
and if you domineer the conversation
or act the same way as you would
in any other normal conversation,
you will not get accurate or real information.
So I'm gonna go over four applicable best practices
to help you understand how to run a customer interview
and what you should do.
Now, first of all, let's tackle the misconception
that when you run a customer interview,
your topic is going to be your product.
It's actually not.
When you talk to your customers,
you wanna talk to them about their problems and their needs.
You rarely, if ever, will talk about the solution.
If you're talking about your solution directly
with the customer, the information you're gonna get,
it's going to be limited,
and it's not going to help you understand the why,
the deeper level of why they make certain decisions,
why they think a certain way.
There's a great quote about talking to your customers
and that's, "Customers might not know what they want,
but they can't hide what they need."
So when you talk about the solution,
you're talking about what they want,
and they often don't know what exactly they want
or how, in an accurate way, to process that information
or describe it.
But their needs are as simple as it gets.
Anyone can talk about what problems they have
or what they need, and we care because those conversations
are much, much richer than a conversation
about the surface of a solution
and whether or not it looks nice.
The second thing you need to understand
is that you are here to ask questions
and not really direct conversation
or give your own opinions or your own thoughts.
In general, the ratio between how much a customer
is going to talk and how much you talk
in one of these interviews,
it should be 95% or 90% to 10% or 5%.
It is very, very skewed.
You wanna set this up so that you ask one question
and that question leads to your customer
talking about multiple things in detail.
The point here is that you wanna get them to talk.
One of my favorite rules about customer development
or customer interviews is the point is to get off point.
Basically, what that means is that don't worry
about whether or not they're answering the question
the exact way that you expected them to
or going onto the topics that you wanted them to.
You have to embrace the idea of tangents.
Sometimes you'll ask a customer a question,
they'll answer it or they might not,
and then they'll go off on their own
and start telling a story or an anecdote
or something that's entirely not related.
And you gotta understand that tangents are good.
Sometimes they're even gold mines.
Sometimes the best ideas come from your customers
going off the cuff, off the record,
saying things that you never would've thought to ask.
The third thing is make sure that you create
an environment where they feel comfortable talking.
That means creating a rapport with them.
Don't run a customer interview where you
just sit down with them
and immediately start asking them detailed questions.
Make sure that they are comfortable with you.
Make sure that you at least feign some effort
that you are interested in them outside of this interview.
Make sure that you're comfortable in conversation
before you actually start.
Along those lines, don't ask them questions
that would be hard for them to answer in person
or make them feel awkward or nervous to answer in person.
Also, when they give you negative feedback,
don't react negatively.
Don't defend the product or the idea
that you were projecting.
When they give you negative feedback, they're testing you,
and if you respond negatively,
that has a chilling effect on the rest of the interview.
They're much less likely to give you truthful,
honest information in the future
because they don't want to have the confrontation
or the argument.
When you respond in a neutral, nonjudgmental way,
they'll then realize that it's okay to tell the truth.
And the last thing is don't force these conversations,
try to guide them.
Depending on what type of interview you're doing,
whether it's exploratory, validation, satisfaction,
or efficiency, you probably have a focus in mind.
You probably have some questions you want to answer
and some topics that you wanna spend time on.
But don't be forceful in forcing them onto that subject.
If you allow them to graze
in areas that they actually care about
and then naturally guide them in the direction
of what you wanna talk about, you'll end up in a situation
where they give you a lot more information
and they feel a lot more comfortable.
You also don't want to risk the chance
that in the process of getting to the topic
that you wanted to talk about,
they could have brought up many, many interesting things
you never would've thought of.
So if you keep those things in mind,
you will have a much better chance
of running a successful interview.
And if you get to a point
where you're having trouble talking to the customer,
you don't know what to ask,
you don't really know what's gonna get them
to respond in a more open, fruitful way,
use this one that I use all the time.
My favorite sentence, anytime I'm stuck,
I don't even know what to say,
is "That's interesting, tell me more."
And if you ever find yourself lost in this process,
not sure what direction is up and what direction is down,
just keep in mind the five W framework.
I'm sure you've heard of it,
but you probably haven't heard of it used
in the context of product management,
which is what, why, who, when, and where.
That is, you are always, as a product manager,
striving to answer the five questions
and get a better, deeper understanding
of what they mean for your product and your customer.
And those questions are, who are your customers?
What are their habits?
When do they use your product?
Where do they need your product?
The last and most important one,
why do they need your product?
Customer development and customer interviews
are really just a process of filling in the gaps
of your knowledge of the five Ws.
The more conversations you have with your customers,
the more you'll be able to fill in the five Ws
and have a better, more holistic understanding
of what your product is, its impact,
and why people are using it.
All right, guys, now that you know
some of the bigger picture
of what makes these interviews successful,
what are they like, what are you thinking about,
and how to keep your eye on the prize,
we're gonna talk a little bit more about the specifics,
where we're gonna talk about good questions
and bad questions.
They make a huge difference in your interviews.
All right, see ya then.

--- Putting the GO in Pokemon Go ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Good Questions, Bad Questions ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
In this lecture, we're gonna talk about
good questions and bad questions.
Now, anytime you talk to a customer,
you run the risk of accidentally biasing the information
they give you, causing them to lie to you,
or the information they give you is hard to understand,
or worse, misleading.
A good question can bring out so much out of a customer,
and it can fill in so much of your understanding
of your product and how to improve it.
Bad questions, on the other hand, are very pernicious.
Sometimes you don't know if you're asking them,
and worse, sometimes you don't know
if you're getting bad answers
and incorporating that into your product decisions.
Let's simplify it.
You ask good questions, you'll make good products.
You ask bad questions,
and you're gonna probably gonna make a bad product.
So how should we ask questions to our customers?
Well, there are some rules that are worth following
to make sure that you're probably asking
good questions and not the bad ones.
The number one rule is always ask open-ended questions.
An open-ended question is a question
that cannot be answered with a simple yes or no
or a specific piece of information.
When you ask someone an open-ended question,
it gives them the latitude and the room to answer it
and to give the relevant information they see fit,
which is exactly what we want from them.
If I just ask someone, "Is it raining outside?"
All I get is a yes or no answer.
It's one tiny little data point.
But if I ask someone, "What do you do on rainy days?"
That could be answered in 1,000,001 different ways.
Who knows?
They could talk for an hour after that.
And you remember from the last lecture,
we talked about the fact that we want people
to go on tangents, we want them to explain.
That's where we get the good stuff.
So that one's pretty simple.
That's what you should do, ask open-ended questions.
If you do that, you can't really fail.
So rule number two is start with the things
that you should not do.
Rule number two, don't ask binary questions.
What do I mean by binary questions?
An example of a binary question might be,
"Have you heard of Uber?"
That question can only be answered with yes or no.
Binary, there's only two options.
You don't do that because one, it doesn't draw them out.
It doesn't entice them to tell you more information
or feel more comfortable with you.
And the second reason is that
you're just robbing yourself of information.
They could have gone on and on and on about a subject
adjacent to that question,
but instead you ask them something
that just ends with a hard landing.
And rule number three is don't ask hypothetical questions.
Now, I know a lot of people
like to ask hypothetical questions.
They get ridiculous and they're things you just
should not do in a customer interview.
An example of a hypothetical might be,
"If you were a painter,
"would you buy a subscription service for canvases
"if it was reasonably priced
"and the canvases were high quality?"
That question is absolutely ridiculous.
And I wouldn't be surprised
if I saw someone ask this in a customer interview,
and I would shake my head vigorously.
Hypotheticals fail for a number of different reasons.
But the biggest reason is that people operate
and often are illogical in fictitious environments,
hypothetical environments.
And if you bring those questions down to earth,
they will actually give you information
that's easier to understand, easier for them to connect with
and it's gonna be more accurate.
Rule number four is don't ask leading questions.
Anybody's watched "Law &amp; Order",
you know what a leading question is.
A leading question is a question that biases
or influences the person that's supposed to answer you.
Leading questions are often questions
that sound more like they're just telling you something.
An example of a leading question might be,
"If you could save 40% on your auto bill,
"would you be interested?"
Yes, I would, Geico.
But let's be honest, who is gonna say no to that question?
It's almost rhetorical.
If I just ask you plainly, "Would you like to save money?"
You'd probably say yes.
So I know the answer to that before I asked it.
So why am I asking the question?
Leading questions get the answer that you want,
but the answer you want might not be the truth.
Rule number five, don't ask questions
that might make the customer lie.
And I mean, lie in the sense of questions
that put them in an awkward position
and will unduly influence them to give a certain answer.
So for instance, if I ask them,
"Have you ever cheated on a test?"
That might be something that they might not wanna tell me,
or questions, let's say about, of personal nature.
Another example question would be,
"Do you think I did a good job with this design?"
It's very awkward sitting next to someone,
especially when you don't know,
to tell them what they made is terrible.
It's the reason why you don't tell your kids
that their kid art is really quite bad.
If they lie, then the data's gonna be junk.
But more importantly, if you put them in a scenario
where they could lie, you'll never know if they did.
And so, it doesn't even matter
because that ambiguity makes your data
and makes your information pretty much junk.
So that's it.
Focus on open-ended questions,
and get the most information out as possible,
and make your customers feel as comfortable as they can.
Don't ask binary questions.
Don't ask hypotheticals.
Don't put them in awkward situations where they might lie.
And don't ask leading questions.
There's really no excuse for breaking some of these rules.
Bad questions can almost always be transformed
into good questions.
Have you heard of Uber?
You could easily just say,
"If you need to get across town, how do you do it?"
That'll give you way more information.
And if they do use Uber
or have heard of it, they will mention it.
If you could save 40% on your auto bill,
would you be interested?
Should be changed to probably multiple questions.
But you could ask a question that's better by saying,
"If you could save 40% on your auto bill by,"
and then explain the downside,
then ask them if they would do it, that's a better question.
Maybe you save 40%
because you have to carpool with everyone every day.
Or maybe it's 40%
because you can't drive on Fridays or Saturdays.
I don't know, give them the whole picture.
The last thing I'm gonna leave you with
is my favorite tip for asking good questions.
Or at least if you ever get stuck in a situation
where you don't know what to ask,
always use this one or have it stored
in the back of your head, ready to go.
It's, "That's interesting.
"Tell me more."
I hate your product.
That's interesting.
Tell me more.
I'm not sure if I would pay for this.
That's interesting.
Tell me more.
Why are you blocking the exits?
That's interesting.
Tell me more.
All right, guys, see you in the next lecture.

--- Building User Personas Off Your Interviews ---

-: What's up everyone?
This is all about building user personas.
And you can build them from the interviews
that Evan just talked about.
First, I want to say, this is a bit of a buzzword alert.
Because what I'm going to talk about in this lecture
is of course user personas and how to make them.
But I want you to know that if you go to many companies
and become a product manager,
they will likely already have a good idea of user personas.
And you will likely not be the one making them.
If you do have to make them,
it's something you will do with the design team.
In any case, understanding what a user persona is
and what they're used for is really useful
to being a product manager
and it's something you need to know.
So have you ever heard of the term user persona before?
If not, you will when you become a product manager
because designers are talking about them all the time.
User personas are just aggregates of observed user behavior.
So let's say that I'm a product manager at eBay.
For those of you that don't know,
eBay is an online auction website
where you can buy and sell products
that people put up for sale.
As a product manager at EBay,
if we talked or interviewed a whole bunch of users,
we would likely find out that there are groups
of certain users that behave in similar ways.
For instance, there are people who shop
once every few months on eBay
for a certain type of collectible item.
There are also people that come to eBay
to look at reviews and prices on certain items,
but very rarely purchase anything.
And then finally, there are probably
some heavily engaged users that log in everyday
to look for a specific item to come available
and they snatch it up really quick and try to resell it.
Then on the other side, we have the seller side.
So these types of users are sellers on eBay
and there are groups of them as well.
So people will sell something once every few months
when they need extra cash.
And then there's another group of people probably
who use eBay all day every day.
And make a actual living off of selling items
over the internet that they purchased in person.
You could imagine that if you were building a product
or feature that is targeted at a specific user behavior,
it would be really convenient to have a user
to refer to as an example.
Rather than this, say, I don't know.
This feature is targeted to all people
between ages of 25 and 40 who sell
a lot of stuff on eBay everyday
and make a living off of our site, right?
This is where user personas come in.
To make a user persona, we interview or observe
a large number of users.
Then you find a user behavior that is observed frequently
and pretend that it is one fictional user doing that thing.
Then you name that fictional user with a real name.
You give them a description like
how they like to use your product and what matters to them.
And then you even give them a bit of background information.
You're actually kind of creating a fake person here.
The purpose of user personas is to make it more convenient
to talk about certain user behaviors
that you're building for,
but also to increase empathy towards your users.
If you're looking at a bunch of metrics
on a screen and see a whole bunch of numbers
that are describing a certain way
that a large user base behaves,
it's sometimes hard to keep in mind
that these are real people out there
in real life doing these things.
User personas make behavior in metrics
more relatable as a human.
All right, so head on over to the next lecture
and we're going to go over
what an actual real life user persona might look like.

--- Real World Example of a User Persona ---

-: Hey everyone.
So just so you can see a true real life example,
here is an actual user persona that we use at SoundCloud.
Her name is Becky and she's a mainstream music listener.
So you can see that we have her name.
We have a little bit about her,
like what type of phone she uses
and what type of music listening habits she has.
And then we have some preferences
on how much she likes technology
or what type of listening she really likes to do.
So if we were doing this with our eBay example
we would do something like this, but we would focus it
on selling things on eBay rather than listening to music.
For instance, we may want to make a persona for users
that find cool stuff at local garage sales
and sell those items on eBay for a living.
We could call this user persona, Jessica maybe,
and say that Jessica is typically between
the ages of 20 and 50,
loves antique shopping and garage sales,
and relies on eBay to make a living.
The most important thing to her could be
that she is able to quickly list multiple items
that she found at antique shows on eBay,
and then manage all of those multiple listings at once
easily from her computer.
So that's an overview of user personas and like I mentioned,
UX designers are going to be the people that are
making these most of the time in your company.
But you need to be very aware of these people
as a product manager.
When you make your user personas,
make sure they have a name, a sketch or a photo,
and a description about what is most important to them
about your product, what they want to be able to do easily,
and anything else you think is useful.
So if you want take a moment
and make a few simple user personas yourself
and share the personas with the rest of the students
in the course forum below.
All right, that's it for this one.
I'll see you all in the next lecture.

--- The Product Manager & The Data Diet ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course.
This lecture, we're gonna talk
about a concept in product management called The Data Diet.
Now, what do I mean by data diet?
Well, what I mean and what I'm getting at
is that when you are a product manager or an entrepreneur
you do not make decisions in a vacuum.
You also are not going to make product decisions
with only one single source of information.
Let's say that you wanted to go see a movie.
Would you be satisfied in just pulling people over randomly
in the street, asking them what they thought of the movie,
and then basing your decision about whether
or not to see it off what they said?
Well, no, and if you said yes
that's because it's a low risk maneuver
or you have really low standards, shame on you.
Building products compared to going
to movies are a little bit different.
Building products are a much bigger risk.
When you're building a product, there are no do-overs,
and if you make a mistake in building your product,
that can haunt your company's legacy for years.
That movie, in this terrible metaphor, would instead last,
let's say a year or at least one
of those ridiculously long four hour movies
and you can't leave to go pee.
So you better figure out for sure
whether or not you're watching the Shawshank Redemption
or Eternal Sunshine for the Spotless Mind.
God, that was awful.
When the stakes are that high
you probably will look for other sources of information.
You might ask your friends or your family, people you trust.
You might read reviews online.
You might even preview it by watching the trailer.
You get the point.
And the same goes for product decisions.
When you make a product decision, you're gonna
be using a mix of different information sources.
You might use internal feedback from your company.
You might use data you got from user testing.
You might use feedback that was submitted online.
You might use the analytics
and the engagement stats from visitors on your page.
You'll even base your decisions off the news
and market trends and watching what your competitors do.
There are a lot of different inputs.
Customer interviews, and everything we just learned
in this section are a crucial part
of making decisions as a product manager,
but they are only one dish in your data diet.
Customer interviews are great, but they do have a pair
of vulnerabilities, and that's why it is crucial
that you supplement this information with other sources.
The first vulnerability is that customer interviews,
they don't really scale.
It's only you talking to a customer.
You can have one, maybe you can have 10,
maybe you're crazy, you have 50 interviews.
That's a lot, but you could be working
with an application that has thousands of users,
so it's actually quite risky to take
three or four interviews
and extrapolate that for the entire group.
Who knows if those three people you talk to
were the crazy ones?
The second vulnerability is that this is qualitative data
and qualitative data is very important
but you also need quantitative data.
Qualitative is the fluffy stuff.
The why, the what.
I like this.
I like that.
Quantitative is the data that are, it's hard numbers.
0.25% of people clicked on this button.
People stayed on your page
for four minutes and 25 seconds, et cetera, et cetera.
Qualitative data is nice and it helps you understand,
but it's kind of left out to dry because
it's not precise enough,
and that's why you need quantitative as well.
Think of qualitative information more like
a barometer of temperature and quantitative data
like an actual thermostat, so keep that in mind.
You have a data diet.
Custom interviews are just one piece of your dinner meal.
You as a product manager will have to make hard decisions
about what inputs to use in your decisions,
which information sources are relevant and which are junk.
In the rest of the course we cover a lot
of these different input signals and we also cover
in more depth how you can synthesize this information
and make good judgements for your product.
All right guys, see you in the next lecture.

--- Section 6: Review & Recap ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- What is an MVP? ---

Instructor: Hey guys, welcome back to the course
and welcome to the new section.
We're gonna talk in this section about MVPs.
First off, we're gonna talk about MVPs,
what they mean in definition,
and how the Lean Startup framework wants us to think
about them.
Then after we're done talking about the theory, we'll talk
about how do MVPs get used in actuality by product managers.
Now, MVP, if you don't know
this stands for Minimum Viable Product.
The term is originally coined
in a book called the Lean Startup Framework written
by
Eric
Ries
and for the most part, it's extremely popular.
Startups nowadays often follow this religiously
and even big companies have taken a lot
of the core concepts and integrated it into their workflow.
All right, let's look at the actual definition of MVP,
as the book says it. Pull it up on the screen.
You guys can read it.
(gentle music)
All right, when we're back. (gabbles)
That was ridiculous
and I'm sorry for how long that definition is.
I don't know why it's so bloated.
MVP just means the smallest amount
of a proposed product that you can build, push out there
and then get real feedback from users
about whether or not they are actually interested in it.
MVPs are primarily designed to test hypotheses
and test assumptions that you have.
Now, if you wanna be more accurate, you would call an MVP
an MVP experiment, because actually an MVP is a
process,
not necessarily a thing
and that process is very much like a science experiment.
You'll start with things like assumptions, a hypothesis,
a minimum criteria for success
and then you'll go about testing your hypothesis
in a very scientific measured way.
MVP experiments rely heavily
on a concept called validated learning
and they draw the distinction
between learning and validated learning.
Validated learning is anything you learn
from a customer that's done in a test environment
in a way that you know
for a fact you're not biasing your customer
and you're studying them in an environment where
they have no undue pressure and they act naturally.
Learning, on the other hand
is just pretty much anything else you do that's not designed
like an experiment, not done well
and you can't trust the results you get from it.
Think of MVPs in the metaphor of walking in a park
and you're on a path and you reach a fork in the road,
except fork is three different ways you can go
and you don't know where to go.
Why are you doing this?
I-- why do people hike in general?
Probably cause they love trees.
Now, in this metaphor,
you have to pick which path to go down
and I'll give you a little bit more information.
Right at that intersection, there's a town.
And this town has people
and these people presumably know which path is
the right one to take.
So how do you decide?
Well, most people would say, ask someone in the town
but actually with an MVP experiment,
you don't wanna ask the town's people.
Why?
Because even if they swear
that they know which path it is,
we don't know for a hundred percent certainty
that they've any idea what they're talking about.
Can you really trust those townspeople
with their quaint way of life?
No, you can't
because it's entirely subjective and qualitative.
So the only way to actually tell for sure
is to walk down each individual path
until you can see enough
of the path to know if it's the right direction.
With an MVP experiment,
it is the art of walking down those paths,
putting in the minimum amount of effort
to get to the point where you can say, "Ah, wrong path."
If you're gonna build a website
that sold shoes online and you weren't sure
if people wanted to buy your shoes online
what would you do?
Would you
go all in, build out a fancy website,
hire some people to program it,
buy some inventory, which is,
this is the equivalent of just sprinting down one path
or would you try to do the absolute minimum
just to figure out first
whether or not this is the right path
and whether or not people wanna buy your shoes online?
That's actually a classic example of the MVP.
If you guys are familiar with Zappos, the way
that they started was exactly what I'm talking about.
They wanted to know if people would buy shoes online
and this is back in the day when buying shoes online
was kind of crazy.
So what they did is they made a very basic website.
They didn't buy any inventory whatsoever.
They walked across the street to a shoe store,
took photos of the shoes and then when people bought them,
they physically walked over, bought the shoes
and then shipped them.
Once that had happened enough
they knew this is the right path.
They knew that this was validated.
Now, a common misconception with MVPs is
that an MVP is some sort of prototype
and when I say MVP, it means, you know
a really basic version of what you're trying to build
and that's just not the case.
MVPs are about idea validation at the end
of the day and what it takes to get to that point.
Well, that's your MVP.
In most situations,
you can actually get away
with not building much of anything,
just anything you can use to figure out whether
or not people are interested in what you are about to build.
The other core reason we make MVPs is
that we use them as a way to mitigate risk.
If you're on the option of building a big fancy platform
that created forms or just using a Google form,
or a basic platform to validate your idea beforehand,
why wouldn't you go with the faster, cheaper, easier option?
By picking that simpler version,
by walking only part way down the path,
we save an enormous amount of resources.
Time resources, money resources
and things like opportunity cost.
The last thing I'll say about MVPs
in the actual lean framer, 'cause that are,
there's a very strong focus on speed
and that's where the mantra of fail fast comes from.
If you can can fail fast
and build your MVP experiments, run them quickly,
then you can run more MVP experiments in the same amount
of time and collect exponentially more data, which means
that you're more likely to find a product
or find a feature that fits, works and is successful.
All right guys, so that's maybe that sounds familiar to you,
maybe it doesn't.
That is the academic way of explaining MVPs.
And then next lecture we're gonna talk more
about the relationship between product managers and MVPs.
MVPs are different depending
on who you are as a product manager
and what company you are working for, right?
See you guys in the next lecture.

--- How do product managers think about MVPs? ---

-: Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course.
So this lecture, we're gonna get even deeper
into the concept of an MVP.
We now know the academic sense of what an MVP is.
Now we're gonna ask the question,
what is an MVP to a product manager?
Well, let's first start
with what we established in the previous lecture.
MVPs are minimum viable products, which are
basically experiments that we're gonna run to simulate
whether or not people are interested
in a new product, or feature or proposing to build.
This primarily is used
as a way to mitigate risk and to save us
from wasting tons of resources
building out the full thing.
Risk is defined here on a number of different dimensions,
but the main ones are risk of losing resources.
Resources like time, resources like money.
Also things like opportunity cost.
So time, money, and opportunity cost.
As a product manager,
are those three things going to be your top priority?
Now, this is where MVPs don't really match
up perfectly with the role of a product manager.
Now, it's easy to understand why lean
and MVPs are so important to startups.
Startups in general don't have a lot
of resources and they don't have a huge tolerance for risk.
Now, you might say to yourself,
"Whoa, I thought startups were super risky."
Well yeah, startups do take risks
on building their products,
but what happens if that product they build
is adopted by no one?
No one shows up.
No one uses it, no one buys it.
Well, the vast majority of cases, the startup just dies.
So as far as tolerance goes,
if you've launched the wrong product
and that means that you die, I would say
that you have a pretty low tolerance for risk.
And so that's why startups hug
the leanness of the MVP pillow.
It's what protects them from the monsters
at night that wanna throw them
into the dead pool of other failed startups.
Now remember what we said when we talked
about what a product manager is.
Well, product managers primarily exist to manage products
and that inherently suggests that they're part
of something that is a little bit more established.
In general, if you're a product manager at a startup,
you might have all the roles
and responsibilities of a product manager,
but your title is gonna be a little bit different.
It probably needs something like co-founder.
Now, the traditional product managers exist
in organizations that are a little bit larger,
and a little bit more established,
and therefore have a higher tolerance for risk.
Assuming that you already have a product,
and it's validated, and it's has product market fit,
it's potentially making money.
Any experiment or MVP you run
that's tangential to that, if it fails
it often doesn't endanger the main product line.
The main source of life blood.
It's not to say that
a failed MVP experiment might not critically
endanger the company, but when you're a product manager
you're probably in an organization that has
at least a little bit of cushion.
The larger the organization, the higher the cushion,
the higher the tolerance for risk, and the more
likely you are to be working on a product that's farther
and farther away from their core product.
Now, imagine you're at Google and you're a product manager.
Congratulations. They get paid a ton of money.
Now imagine you run an experiment on a product,
you launch it and it fails miserably
and you blow a bunch of money.
Do you think that's going to endanger Google?
In very few conceivable scenarios
could it ever endanger that company.
As long as it doesn't have to do
with that oil derrick of money coming
from their search ads, they'll probably be fine.
So as a PM, when you run an MVP experiment
you're gonna try to do it quickly
and you're gonna try to not be wasteful,
but you are probably going to de-emphasize
resources as a hard constraint.
If I were to draw this as a graph, on the left hand side
the Y axis you would have risk tolerance.
On the bottom you would have the size of the organization.
As it gets larger, they have higher risk tolerance
and as their risk tolerance gets higher and higher,
they start replacing the things that you're
traditionally concerned with in Lean and
in MVP with other metrics and aspects.
They start caring about other things
such as, their brand or opportunity cost.
Bigger organizations care about things
like brand and opportunity cost,
because they're a bigger deal at a big organization.
Brands for big organizations are big.
There's a lot of inherent value
in the brand that they've built up.
Startups generally do not have that problem.
And opportunity cost is another thing
that's big for a company.
A company that has lots of resources, lots of talent
has the option to pursue a lot of different avenues.
For a large organization,
they're gonna care a lot less about wasted resources
and a lot more about things
that startups can't even imagine,
such as not being the first company onto
a brand new platform, or missing a big trend
with one of their product lines.
That's a big deal for large organizations.
Now, the last point I'm gonna make is a product manager,
is that you don't have to think
like a scrappy two person startup.
If you make a new product or feature and it doesn't work,
you will survive to live another day.
And because you are still there, also keep
in mind that failed products can actually benefit you
in other ways, other parts of your organization
can absorb the benefit.
So for as a class activity, I'm gonna ask you a question.
Post in the group discussion with what you would do.
Let's go back to the Google example.
Let's talk about Google Glass.
You remember that one?
Google launched the notorious face wear called Google Glass,
which either turns you into an object
of envy or a target of derision.
Now, as a product manager at Google,
would you have launched Google Glass?
Now, some food for thought,
a lot of you guys would say no.
It was a big waste of money, waste of time.
There was the whole glass hole phenomenon.
People really just didn't adopt it.
But I'm gonna ask you to think just a little bit
about the other benefits
that could have came from Google Glass.
All that money they spent,
it barely even dented their balance sheet.
It made no difference to the company as a whole,
but they did get a ton of buzz,
a ton of press and they enhanced their brand
because they're pushing the envelope
showing themselves as innovative, and at least, hey
they're swinging for the fences and trying something.
So just put us in the group discussion.
State your case.
Do you agree with me or do you agree
with the state standard response, which is no.
All right guys, I'll see you in the next lecture.

--- 7 steps to running an MVP experiment ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the chorus.
All right, so now you are pretty much
up to your neck in information
about how PMs look at MVPs
and what they are from an academic sense.
You understand now that MVPs, they change depending
on the size of the organization
because organizations have vastly different amounts
of resources to work with.
So in the next set of lectures in this section
we're gonna go down step by step the process
that a product manager would take
to come up with an MVP experiment
and run it and then learn from it.
And now I'm gonna explain briefly
how the general flow of an MVP experiment is going to go.
There are seven steps, and we'll start with the first one.
The first step in running an MVP experiment
is just figuring out what exactly
your problem and solution set is.
We're not gonna jump on this in this section
because you should have done that in the last two sections
where we talked about figuring out what problem your product
or feature is actually aiming to solve.
Now you don't obviously need to know
for a fact that that problem exists
and that this solution is the best solution.
That's what we are gonna use an MVP experiment for
to figure out whether or not this is the right combo.
But once you do have on the table
what you want to try the next step.
And step number two is we need to identify
the assumptions associated with this problem solution set.
Anytime you launch a new product,
come up with a new feature.
You are assuming a lot of things,
there are a lot of things you just take for granted,
and there's a lot of different things
that go into the success of a product.
So we're gonna systematically sit down and try to think
of what are all the things that have to go right
for this to be successful.
And then at the end of that process,
we're gonna figure out which of these assumptions
is the riskiest.
Which is the gunpowder and the bottom deck of your ship.
That can just sink the whole thing.
The next step in step number three
is once we have our assumptions,
we're gonna work on building testable
hypotheses out of them.
It's a relatively simple, straightforward technique.
We'll take the assumptions
and we'll figure out a way of stating what exactly we think
they are and then establish criteria for testing them.
Building a hypothesis around a assumption
is relatively easy.
All we're doing is building statements
that we are confident about and we want to test
based off the assumption.
In the next step, step number four, we're gonna set up
what's called a minimum criteria for success.
We're gonna run an experiment
and try to test our assumptions and prove our hypotheses
we need to know what constitutes success,
what constitutes failure.
If you don't do this step
you have no idea if you succeeded or you failed.
We gotta draw a line in the sand
and then later we can look and say,
ah, no, he fell right before the line.
Or, you know, he actually made it past it.
The next step is picking
what type of MVP you're going to run.
There's a lot of different ways
of getting validation from your customers
or potential customers.
It's just gonna depend on what suits you
what suits the feature that you're gonna propose
and you're trying to try to build.
And it's also gonna really matter on
how big your organization is.
The last two steps are executing the MVP experiment
running it, getting out there, getting some real life data
then iterating on that, collecting the data
and figuring out whether or not you succeeded,
what worked, what didn't, and what you would change
if you were gonna redo this experiment.
At that point you'll have a hard yes or no
about whether or not this is a viable option
and it's worth your time
compared to other opportunities you might have.
All right guys, hope you're excited.
In the next lecture, we're gonna start with step number two
which is taking a problem solution set
and identifying assumptions that we are making about it.
All right, see you then.

--- Identifying your assumptions ---

-: Hey guys, welcome to the course.
All right, so we're gonna start
down the MVP journey and we're gonna start
with identifying the assumptions that we're making
about our problem solution set.
Now, in case you didn't catch me before when I said this
and at this stage of the game
you probably have an idea of what you are trying to build.
We covered that in the other section.
So you're probably have a decent idea
of what type of user or potential customer you're targeting
and what is the new feature
or the new solution you're gonna be proposing.
Now, every single time you come up with a new idea, whether
or not it's a new business idea or a new feature idea
you are taking on board enormous amount of assumptions.
Like almost anything in life,
we think we know things, and that is built
up of a lot of small things that we assume to be true.
You get into a car and you think
that it's going to be able to start
you're assuming that the engine is actually working.
You're assuming that it has gas in the tank.
You're assuming it's not cold enough
outside that the spark plugs
things get stuck together and it can't start.
There's a lot of assumptions into that even basic idea.
And since all these assumptions have the possibility
of not being true and that creating a problem for us
we need to write out as many of our assumptions that we can.
All right?
So when you start identifying the assumptions
that you are making, it's kind of an abstract process.
There's not generally a step
by step process you'll go through.
Really, you just need to sit down
and think hard about what goes into
you thinking
that your users are gonna like whatever you're gonna build.
You need to recognize
that almost every single time you have one of these ideas
it's gonna be based off
of some type of observation or some type of intuition.
In either case, you just assume
and take for granted many, many things.
Now, there are two different ways I like to try to get
into kind of the mindset that'll help me
identify these tricky little things.
The first one is to try to think about the lean mantra
which is that you we're running this
like a science experiment and any science experiment
we're challenging ourselves with regards
to what we know is true.
And so what we need to do to be successful is to get
in kind of a Lean Zen mode
and keep saying to ourselves, We don't know anything.
-: You know nothing, John Snow
-: Anything you think you know is an assumption.
So what do you think you already know
before you've even gotten
out there and tried to build something?
Now, the second way
and I think this one's probably more effective
for most people, and I like to write this one out
is in order for this problem solution
set to be successful
the following must be true.
And then just try to fill in all of the factors you think go
into this potentially being successful.
Google Glass.
What do you think has to be true
for that to have been successful?
Well, you probably have to assume
that people will wear a camera on their face.
What has to be true in order for Udemy to be successful?
It has to be true
that people are gonna be comfortable paying money
for online courses.
Whether or not we're at the stage in our development
that we trust online courses enough to pay money.
That's a legitimate question.
If you're having natural regrets
about buying this course, I don't blame you.
I do blame Cole.
Now, in most cases, there are enormous amount
of assumptions that you could write out for this.
All we wanna do is focus on the big ones
and I'm gonna give you some examples of common assumptions
that almost everybody makes, and then hopefully
this can be a template for you going forward
and it'll help you find a whole batch of other assumptions.
Now, the first assumption
that almost everyone seems to make is
My user has X, Y, Z problem.
Remember, we had the problem solution set.
You're probably trying to build something
that targets someone's problem
but how do you know if that problem is real?
How do you know if the customer considers it a problem?
That is an assumption, and it's an assumption
in pretty much anything you ever build.
If you're building Bluetooth headphones, you're assuming
that people really are fed up with cords.
If you're building this Snuggie,
that big one piece wizard suit, you're assuming
that it is too inconvenient to just put a blanket on you.
Now, the number two most common assumption I
see is blank matters to my customers.
Anytime you do a new feature or business idea
or product idea, you are assuming it's gonna be successful
because you're gonna take some kind of angle with it
and that angle is something your customers care about.
If I'm building something that's specifically
going to be cheaper than the competition
I'm assuming people care about it being cheaper.
If I'm trying to build something that is more convenient
than the competition,
I'm assuming that convenience is a big factor
in what they care about with the service.
So don't assume what your customers care about
but do write it out.
Number three is that users will pay
or sign up for this service or product.
Now, that's kind of an optional assumption.
This is assuming you have a product that charges
or signs people up in some way to eventually make money.
Eventually, we all wanna make money
and all products will eventually get
to a point where it makes money.
So either have to go one
of those avenues, charging or signing them up.
So that's always, always an assumption.
Maybe the problem is a big problem, but do we know
if it's a big enough problem for them to say pay money
for it or give you their contact details?
If I'm the genius behind the Hot Pocket, I'm assuming
that people will enjoy a
big bean burrito of lava
so much so that they would pay money for it.
And number four is
that there are no satisfactory substitutes.
A lot of times we just assume that
our solution is better than what's available, but it's
it's often the case that customers have already figured
out a way to solve that problem
and there's really no reason to switch.
I'll give you an example.
Let's say we are making an app that told me what
the temperature is right now.
Now are there satisfactory substitutions for that?
Absolutely. Not only could I go
to weather.com or any of the other hundred weather services
I could just look out the window or just walk outside.
What a concept.
So keep that one in mind
and try to test whether or not there are alternatives
out there that are already meeting their needs.
All right, guys.
In the next section
we're gonna talk about risky assumptions
and then after that we'll do some practice
with this so you guys can see some real life examples.
All right, See then.

--- FOLLOW ALONG: Let's identify the assumptions for Zirx ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Hey, I totally lied at the end of the last lecture.
We're actually just gonna jump in
and start working with a real example
and then go over what are some example assumptions
that we can think of for this product.
Yes, I know, I lied, you'll get over it.
I'm over it already, let's start.
All right, so for our example we're gonna use a service
that is somewhat well known in the San Francisco Bay Area.
It's not really outside of New York and San Francisco,
I think, right now, it might be in Chicago and Boston,
but it's enough of an an idea that's a little bit out there
that we can come up with some assumptions relatively easily.
And it's a good example to use.
It's an example that's called Zirx, that's Z-I-R-X.
And what they do is they build a mobile app
that allows you when you are driving your car
to hail an on-demand valet person
who picks up your car and then takes it to storage
and then you can request your car back at any time.
So basically what they're trying to do is on-demand valet.
And the idea is that if you're driving, let's say downtown,
you're going out to eat, you have a car,
in any big city, parking is just a disaster.
And garages are typically inconvenient.
They're hard to get into, they're hard to find,
especially when you're trying to do
a hundred different things at once and they're expensive.
So for all the same reasons you would use a valet,
you would use an on-demand valet.
But the advantage of being an on-demand valet
is that I can call a valet person
and they can take that car literally anywhere.
They don't have to park it in a garage near me.
They can take it out to the suburbs
where it costs nothing to store.
And then all I have to do is just tell them
a little bit before when I need it
and it works the exact same way.
It's an interesting service.
Check it out if you guys are ever in San Francisco
and have a car and want to do it.
They have a lot of funding
and they are launching in a lot of different cities
and they have a lot of competitors, mainly copycats.
There's one called Luxe and there's one called Caarbon.
All right, so get familiar with them
'cause we're gonna do some assumptions.
Now, the core problem solution set
for Zirx is the problem, right,
is that it's hard to park your car in big cities
and or it's hard to find garages
which are inconvenient and expensive.
And then the solution to that
is by using flexible on-demand valets
through a mobile application to take advantage
of technology for speed and for proximity
so they can save money on the storage costs.
All right, so we're building that product.
What did we assume? Well, a whole lot.
Pretty much every sentence I said to you about why they work
or why they're appealing, was just loaded with assumptions.
Now, let's use the technique that we learned before
and say the following must be true
in order for our idea to be successful.
So what has to be true?
Well, we'll start off with one of the more obvious ones.
Remember how I said
that parking is hard to find in big cities?
That's an assumption.
I do not know that for an absolute fact.
So I'm gonna write that out.
Parking is bad or difficult in big cities.
Maybe it's the case that people don't find parking
to be an issue or maybe most cities don't have this issue.
So what are some other examples that we can think of?
Well, let's use those examples
that we learned in the last lecture.
Well, most times we're making assumptions
about the problem we think we're solving.
So remember how I said
that people find parking garages inconvenient?
That is an assumption.
Do people really find them inconvenient?
It could be the case that people have no issue with them.
They're everywhere, they're so easy to spot,
they have signs and maybe those guys who twirl
their signs in the middle of the road, whatever.
And then the corollary to that
was that people find them expensive, right?
I said that, you know, there's a cost advantage
by using an on-demand valet system,
but do people really think the alternative,
which are garages, are too expensive?
It might be the case that people who use garages
are used to those prices
and so they don't actually think of it as a problem.
Let's move on to the other one.
What are things we are assuming
that matter to our potential user?
Well, I mean,
think about the value proposition of this app, right?
We're trying to save them money and make it more convenient.
Those are the two biggest things.
So we're kind of assuming
that someone who's driving their car downtown
and wants to park it for dinner or work or whatever
cares about price and convenience.
And we're also assuming
that they don't really care about speed, right?
Because if we're using the on-demand system,
it might actually be slower
than if you're using a garage where you know where it is
or a valet service that's already embedded
into the restaurant you're going to.
Now, are there any satisfactory substitutes?
Well, we kind of already addressed it
when we said parking on the street is a substitute
or parking in a garage is a substitute.
But we could just say that people are not satisfied
with parking their car in a garage.
Now let's think about some things
that we're assuming about the market.
We're assuming that the market
that we're gonna be able to serve,
let's say, has enough drivers with smartphone.
That is actually an important assumption.
If you're going into a market and you build a smartphone app
and the vast majority of people don't have smartphones,
then it could potentially be a venture
that's not nearly as lucrative or interesting.
We're also assuming in a weird way
that the driver can operate the smartphone
while they're driving the car, right?
I mean, texting and driving is terrible,
but I can't even imagine what it's like
trying to place a pin on the phone
while you're like navigating traffic 'cause you're downtown.
So it might be the case that, you know,
everyone who uses a service has someone else in the car.
Maybe solo drivers, not a great idea.
Another area that we're making assumptions about
actually is the other side of the market, right?
We have to hire people to be the valet.
So we're actually assuming
that people want to be on-demand valets.
And then the last thing I would say
is just trust and safety.
We are assuming that people are going to be comfortable
giving their car to what they call a Zirx agent.
Seriously, Zirx's a terrible, terrible name,
but interesting service.
All right guys, so we got 10 assumptions right there.
Those are all big ones.
If you guys have any other ones you wanna add,
post actually in the group discussion,
tell me which ones I left out.
And if you disagree with some of these being assumptions,
I would love to hear it.
We can fight it out and then we'll see who's right.
All right, so in the next lecture what we're gonna do
is we're gonna take these assumptions
and organize them by risk.
All right, see you in the next lecture.

--- Finding the riskiest assumption of them all ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hey, guys, welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture, we're gonna talk about
how do we take our assumption list
and identify which of them are the really risky ones,
and which ones are not as risky.
Now, the reason why we do this
is because it's a function of being lean,
and it's a function of running an MVP experiment.
Now remember, it's all about mitigating risk
and saving resources.
So, if we have a lot of factors that have to be true
in order for our product or feature to be successful,
it makes sense to focus first on the ones
that could potentially sink the ship
and make the entire thing unviable,
versus some of the less risky things
that are not really a big deal.
You don't wanna get into a situation
where you spend a lot of time validating assumptions
that were very, very small and unrisky,
only to come up to let's say your sixth experiment
where you test a risky one and you fail miserably,
and you completely scrap the project.
That's gonna happen all the time,
but you wasted so many resources
that you didn't have to waste, had you just started
the opposite direction with the riskiest one first.
In this section, we're gonna come up with
an MVP experiment structure that's gonna target
as many of the riskiest ones as we can,
but we first gotta figure out which ones are risky.
So let's look at the template of examples
that we used before.
Number one was the assumption
that our customer has x, y, z problem.
Number two is that we assume our customer cares
about whatever we think they care about.
Number three, we're assuming that the solution
we're about to create is valuable enough to the user,
or potential user, for them to either pay you,
or give you their email address or some form of information.
And then the last one on the template was that we assume
that there are no satisfactory substitutes,
meaning that there's no other way of doing this
that people find to be okay.
So now, just out of these examples,
let's say you just had a theoretical product idea,
which of these four do you think
is probably the biggest deal?
As in, if one of these things turned out to be false,
we assume this and it's not true,
which of them is probably going to be the biggest deal?
Which one could potentially just blow up
and make all the other ones not matter?
So let's just start from the bottom.
No satisfactory substitutions.
Well, there are plenty of products
and plenty of services out there
that competed with satisfactory substitutions.
People didn't even realize they had a problem with it
until someone popped up and said,
"Hey, here's a better way of doing it."
People were pretty satisfied with their feature phones.
I mean, they had a lot of issues,
but for the most part, if you asked someone
who had a feature phone you know, before 2006,
they'd probably say, "Yeah, I'm pretty satisfied with it."
and that was before they came out with the iPhone.
So people can typically get dislodged from substitutions
if you show them there's a better way on some dimension.
Number three, they will pay for it or sign up for it.
Well, that's a problem if they won't
because it's an issue for your business model.
But is it absolutely a game changer,
something that you know, just drops the curtain,
you can't possibly go forward?
Well, no, not really
'cause there's plenty of other ways of monetizing,
or growing a successful product,
that don't rely on the customer paying you directly.
For instance, you can work with ads.
Ads don't require any sign up,
and they don't require anyone paying you any money.
It might not be ideal but it's still a viable avenue.
Number two, blank matters to my customers.
You know, if you're trying to build something,
let's say that is super fast,
and you find out that people
don't really care how fast it is.
Let's say we were, you know, Domino's Pizza, and we
came out with the 30 minutes or less delivery strategy.
We found out that no one cares.
It doesn't matter if they get it in 30 minutes
or two hours or three hours.
Now, would it be a game ender?
Well, no, but it would be a a pretty significant setback.
The thing is that we have a thing called marketing,
and the job of marketing is to
convince people that they care about things
they didn't previously care about.
So it's very plausible that dominoes
could just run an ad convincing people
that you want pizza and pizza's better if you eat it sooner.
Before I bought a 1080p HDTV, if you had asked me,
"Do you care about the resolution of your TV?"
I'd say, What are you talking about?
What is resolution?
But after I bought one and I saw what they could do,
yeah all of a sudden I started caring
because that was really crisp.
This is actually shot in 1080p, not 4k,
and you can thank us for that cause if it was shot in 4k,
you wouldn't be paying attention.
You'd be lost in every contour and bump on my face.
Now the last one is, my customer has x, y, and z problem.
That actually is a big, big deal.
If we're trying to build something that solves a problem,
and that problem does not exist,
we are building a solution in search of a problem,
and that never goes well.
So I would actually say the lack
of a problem in this scenario is by far the riskiest.
And as a product manager, what I would do then
is try to design my MVP experiment to target that one.
After I proved that one to be true, I would then
move on to the next riskiest, which is probably number two,
and then the next one is probably number four,
and then the next one is probably number three.
In the next lecture we're going to
find the riskiest assumption of our example Zercs.
You guys can skip this one if you want.
Totally not mandatory, but if you do care, watch it.
Otherwise, we'll see you in the next next lecture.

--- Making decisions: The risk / difficulty square ---

-: Hey guys.
Welcome back.
All right, let's talk product management strategy
as it relates to testing out your assumptions.
Now, as you remember,
and as we established MVP,
it's just a technique for testing whether
or not a new product or feature
is gonna be adopted by your user base
or potential customers.
Remember this, the next step when you have a list
of things you want to add or test or build,
is to break it down into assumptions
and build hypotheses around them.
That's where we're at right now.
Now you have a list of everything you think.
How do you decide which one you should
direct your effort towards proving first?
Well, we know which one is the riskiest, right?
So wait, why don't we just jump right into testing that?
Well, it's complicated,
and if you were an entrepreneur
I would say absolutely the first thing you should do
is just tackle the riskiest assumption you have.
But as a product manager
it's a little bit more nuanced than that.
There are other things you have to take
into consideration to make the right decision.
That's what we're gonna talk about in this lecture.
So I'm gonna introduce to you a structured way
of viewing your test and your hypotheses.
The reality of any situation is going to be
that you have assumptions
and God only knows if they're true.
You need to figure out whether or not they are.
You also have to contend with the fact that
as an organization you probably have
limited resources for these experiments.
Now companies have to focus on a million different things,
and chances are this little test you're running
is probably not the biggest thing in the universe to them.
So your design team and your dev team are really
gonna have to ration their time based
on how important the task at hand is going to be.
That's exactly the mentality we're gonna use to
pick what to test first.
Now product assumptions generally will have
two main criteria:
one is their risk,
and two is the difficulty associated with executing on them.
Now, risk in this case means how risky they are
to a potential feature or product as a whole.
Now remember we talked about how some can
sink the ship and others just change its course.
Difficulty on the other hand,
refers to how hard it would be to figure
out whether or not this assumption is real,
as in how much effort would you have to channel
into testing this?
It's often thought of in a graph.
On the Y axis we have risk,
and on the X axis we have difficulty.
Now, since we have risk and we have difficulty
we can divide this up into four different quadrants.
You obviously have things that are
low risk, low difficulty.
Then we have a quadrant that's low risk, high difficulty.
Another one that's high risk, low difficulty,
and another one that's high risk, high difficulty.
Now an example of a high risk, low effort assumption:
let's say that you were gonna make
a subscription business for Airbnb hosts.
What it does is it mails them gifts
that they give to their guests.
They sign up, they say their preferences,
and it sends them out the gifts.
Now, it's really risky that guests
might not actually want gifts from their hosts,
and that's something that's easy to find out
because all you have to do to figure out
that assumption is get one owner
to give out a couple of gifts,
or you know just ask a couple guests,
get them on the phone.
Very risky, very easy to figure out
whether or not that assumption is true.
Now, let's look at the inverse.
What's something that's low risk?
As in, it's not gonna sink the ship,
it's not a huge deal,
but to answer that question,
it'd be pretty difficult.
Let's stick with the same example.
Subscription service that sends gifts to Airbnb host.
Well, I could think of one.
It's that hosts might not buy gifts
or buy items that they would have
otherwise had access to in their own city.
Well, how exactly would you test whether or not
they'll buy these items from you
that they have access to?
Well, you probably have to build a website,
find things they already know they can buy,
and then stock those things
and see if they buy those things.
You couldn't just ask them
on the phone whether or not they'd buy it.
That's not a scenario where
what they tell you off the cuff,
what they tell you, subjectively,
it's probably not gonna be true.
You'll need to see it in practice.
Now, as a product manager,
you're gonna wanna focus your effort
on what gets you the most bang for your buck.
Since you don't drive
the singular focus of your organization,
which by the way this is entirely different
than when you are an entrepreneur
cuz as an entrepreneur you are everything.
You'll have to really pick what is most worth it.
Generally, the best category to target
is kind of obvious right?
It's high risk, low difficulty.
We can make pretty meaningful progress
without taking up a ton of people's time.
Now, after that, you're generally gonna want to
focus on things that are still high risk.
Now, since you've knocked some things out,
you're feeling more confident about your project,
you can now start to ask
for larger commitments from your team.
Then after that you're probably gonna wanna
cross your T's and dot your I's.
Why not just swipe through
the other quadrant that's low risk, low effort,
and most likely just end up ignoring
the high effort, low risk,
probably not worth focusing on it all.
Now generally, you're gonna want to
focus your efforts based off of
this graph and always be on the lookout
for low difficulty, simple, easy things
that are not resource intensive ways
of testing out high risk assumptions.
All right, see you in the next lecture.

--- What is a hypothesis? ---

(upbeat guitar music)
-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
All right, so we have a big bad list of assumptions
that we've made about our proposed feature or product.
And in that big bad list,
we've identified the order and the priority
in which we should figure out,
A, is this true?
Now, your goal at this point is to steadily
and methodically start testing these assumptions
one by one and ruling them out
as potential issues that could blow up down the road.
But we can't do that until we first solve
a new problem we have.
An assumption list is just a raw list of things
we roughly think need to be true
for the success of our product.
These assumptions are not precise
and they're not particularly actionable.
If I said, go build an MVP that tests the assumption
of people are satisfied parking in a garage
you would probably say,
"I don't know what you're talking about."
We need something we can more easily work with.
We need to take our assumptions,
flesh them out a little bit more,
and roll them together into their much more specific
and easier to deal with sibling, the hypothesis.
So what is a hypothesis?
It's a single written, testable statement
of what you believe to be true
with regards to the assumption you've identified.
Now, I know that's a mouthful,
so let's break it down and explain it a little bit more.
Let's say that we had identified
that people are not satisfied with parking in a garage,
as a particularly hairy assumption we were making.
Now, remember, this is from that Zurich's example
that we covered previously.
Check that one out if you're lost.
We would probably think of running some
sort of test to see if that assumption was true.
It could be as simple as doing street surveys
of people leaving garages on a Friday night,
or maybe it's an ad we run
that says parking in garages suck.
And we see who responds to that ad,
or maybe we plan to pitch an alternative
and how many people will then vote
with their feet and start using the parking garages.
The point here though is that it doesn't matter yet
how we get our data and how we run our test.
The simple fact is that we cannot construct
a test around people are not satisfied with parking.
We need to get more specific.
We need to identify who exactly we think are unsatisfied,
how unsatisfied they are, and potentially things
like why we think they're unsatisfied.
All of this information is crucial for you to understand.
Now, there's a reason why MVPs are more correctly
called MVP experiments.
And yes, if you say, "Oh my God, Evan, look at my MVP,"
I'm gonna correct you, because, come on.
Now because we don't wanna waste any of our resources
pursuing our new product or feature,
we need to treat this entire process
like a science experiment.
And the best way to focus our efforts is on one
singular hypothesis, something we can try to prove true.
Hypothesis brings clarity not only to you
but the rest of your team.
If you skip this stage, you're on the risk
of down the road for getting what exactly
you're trying to do in the first place.
So in the next couple lectures,
we're gonna try to cover how to put these together.
As a matter of strategy,
it's gonna be up to you whether or not
you wanna build a hypothesis
for every single assumption you have.
Or you wanna build a hypothesis
that if proven true could rule out several assumptions
killing multiple assumption birds with one MVP stone.
We'll cover both, stay tuned.

--- Putting together a hypothesis ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back.
Let's dive into creating some hypotheses
based off of the assumptions we previously listed out.
Remember what goes into one of these right?
No? You don't actually remember?
Well, let me tell you
because I only alluded to it before in the previous lecture
and you probably only heard it
if you were paying really close attention.
Pat yourself on the back if you know what I'm about to say.
The biggest difference between an assumption
and a hypothesis is that a hypothesis is actionable.
How exactly is it actionable?
Well, because it has specifics.
We define a target group.
We're gonna define an expected outcome of our test
and we might even dabble with details
like why we expect our subjects to do something
or how we plan to get them to do it.
So target group, potential problem,
an action and potentially even an expected outcome.
So we'll try writing out some of these formulas
starting with the most basic and then building
up to more and more sophisticated versions.
As a product manager, you're probably going to run tests
for a variety of scenarios.
You're thinking of launching a new product.
You're thinking of adding
or removing a new feature on your existing product.
Or you're looking to make a significant change
to the product features you already have.
We'll cover three different ways
and you can choose whichever one fits your needs
for your exact situation.
Let's start with the most basic hypothesis.
It goes a little something like this.
We believe blank will blank because blank.
The first blank is the subject.
We believe some group of people,
some target group of customers out there.
The second blank will is the expected action we
think they're going to do.
Maybe they'll buy something from you.
Maybe they'll flock to some new service.
Maybe they'll sign up for something.
And then the because
is the reason why we're predicting they do it.
Maybe it's cause they wanna save money.
Maybe they don't like the competition.
Whatever it is we think, that's what we're gonna put there.
There you go.
That's a hypothesis.
This one works great.
If you're building a new product or you're an entrepreneur
you wanna establish, let's say, women ages 40 to 45
will sign up for weekly events newsletters
because they would like to stay informed about their city.
Yeah, I know it's nonsense, but if one
of your riskiest assumptions was older women are interested
in being informed about news in their city, close quotes,
this would pretty much nail it for you as a hypothesis.
Now let's address some concerns.
Do we have to include or address a problem
in our hypothesis?
Well, this is a bit complicated.
At its core, all products and all features stem
from problems.
You're gonna hear me saying this throughout the course.
Whatever it is,
if you think long enough about it, you can probably
pinpoint some problem that it solves.
The problem with Google Glass, yes,
is that you have to reach for your phone, right?
As opposed to reaching for my phone, I can have it up here.
I know very trying times we live in
but it is still a problem
regardless of the severity or the degree of the problem.
Whatever you think your users are going to do
it's probably because you're going to solve
or alleviate some problem they have in some degree.
So if you wanna be more accurate
in your hypothesis and do a better job, add a problem.
And if you can't think of a problem, it's okay.
Instead you can describe a benefit.
Blank group would benefit by blank.
That doesn't necessarily get
at the core reason why they would benefit
because it's solving a problem at its core,
but sometimes that's something you really don't care about.
That extra bit of learning is really helpful.
But is it crucial at this stage?
Not necessarily.
Okay, now that you have a hypothesis
you would then go out and test that.
And this form is fine for this stage
because at this stage you're just establishing
that people are even interested at all.
You are completely wading out from shore on this one
and you're just looking for a heartbeat of a demand.
This is what you might do
if you were doing exploratory tests
that entrepreneurs are so familiar with.
But product managers might be managing an already
established customer base that has already established
that they want your product.
So we need to get more specific.
Product managers are often going to use MVP tests
and hypotheses to make changes to their existing product
in order to create a desired outcome.
In this use case, we're not just tacking on
more product to our product or creating a new product.
We're tinkering with what we already have built.
Let's try adding some criteria to accommodate
for this type of scenario.
All right, new style of hypotheses.
If we blank, we believe blank will blank because blank.
Now we have an action.
If we change the color of the buy button
we believe all users will buy more
because they are busy and often get distracted like I do.
Now, that is something we can test.
But what about that word we used in there, more?
Well, you could actually use that word
and it's unideal, but it can actually work technically.
Technically more means more.
A larger number in some regards.
So it either goes up or it goes down
which right now is fine.
In the next lectures we're gonna talk
about how you define what more means
and it's called a minimum criteria for success.
I don't wanna spoil it for you
but it's in the next couple lectures.
But if we wanted to make it more specific at this point
well, let's do that
and let's actually try to define what buy more means.
And let's just reorganize our hypothesis to
avoid making a nasty runoff sentence.
Now, buy more could mean a lot of different things.
It could mean increased cart size
if you're an e-commerce store.
It could mean they buy more often.
They return to purchase more often.
It could also mean that they buy the same amount of items
but they're more expensive.
So in this hypothesis, let's actually try to address that.
So let's say we believe blank has a blank
because blank.
If we do blank, this blank metric will be affected.
I know this is kind of crazy
but all you have to do is just fill
in the blanks with what should go there.
And now you have a very easy template to use to
make a very specific and very actionable hypothesis.
Okay, now in this scenario, we now have an action
we can take to solve a user problem that happens
to a specific group because of a reason we think.
If we do this,
we assume this metric will then be affected.
And keep in mind
this is the product management way of thinking.
More specificity equals more focus.
Also, product managers love metrics
as you'll find out more later.
So there you have it.
Three different ways of running a hypothesis
with varying degrees of complexity.
If you've established basic demand and basic validation
i.e. new products or entrepreneurs
stick with the short version of the hypothesis
and just keep it simple.
If you're merely speculating
on a way to change user behavior and you're exploring this
then try the second type.
But if you want to manage a product
you gotta get used to using the most specific one
which was the third type.
All right guys, you now know how to make a hypothesis.
Next lecture, we're gonna do it
for our example business Zerx.
See you then.

--- FOLLOW ALONG: Identifying Zirx's hypothesis ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back.
So last lecture, we covered how to take your assumptions
and then convert them
into testable and easy to understand hypotheses.
And since we've been using that company called Zirx before
as an example, let's go ahead and try out making a for Zirx.
Let's first go back a little bit and refresh ourselves
on what some of the assumptions we made about Zirx were.
Well, we were assuming a lot of different things.
We were assuming that parking
in cities was gonna be limited.
We were assuming
that people thought garages were too expensive.
Maybe they also thought that garages were inconvenient
and we even had assumptions that were
on the supply side where we assumed
that people would even want to park cars
as part of our service.
Now, out of all of those ones we went over
we didn't cover all of them in just that second
but do you remember the biggest one?
The one we were concerned about the most, the riskiest one.
The riskiest one was that people will be
okay letting an on demand valet park their car.
Well, let's try to think
about how we would build a hypothesis that turns
this assumption into an actionable version of itself.
Well, we first need to define out the pieces
of the hypothesis and draw out our handy dandy template.
I'm using the shortened version
because we're testing a new service
so we're not really trying to tie this
to things like internal metrics or say, you know
expecting this behavioral change because,
well we don't have any data to compare the past behavior.
We're gonna keep it simple.
Now, what are we to put in for the who?
Well, I'm guessing it's gonna be people that have cars
and are probably in the age range of 30 to 50
potentially with incomes over, let's say $80,000 a year.
Really, I'm just spit balling.
Realistically, you would probably do some research here
but this is a pretty plausible subject target.
Now, what's the action we're expecting them to do?
Well, it's let an on demand valet park their car.
Now what's the problem we think we are solving?
Remember, again, we don't have to define the problem
but I think it's helpful.
Well, you know, there could be a lot of different reasons
and we highlighted them before in past lectures.
Let's just say that it's because garages are too expensive
and that's their problem.
We could even add a location if we wanted to add even
more specificity to this, but that's completely optional.
They themselves actually launched in San Francisco
so we could say San Francisco, but really it'd be
any city that has bad downtown parking.
Well, there you go.
We've pieced together a one sentence testable hypothesis
and guess what?
We got to wrap into that hypothesis
several other assumptions that were on our list.
See how that works.
If this hypothesis turns out to be true, in its entirety,
then people do think garages are too expensive.
That was one of our assumptions.
If they end up completing a transaction where
they use an MVP
to book their first Zirx pickup,
well then that also means that it's probably
not too difficult to use the service while driving.
Remember, that was also one of our assumptions.
Now, realistically, we could go
at this in a hundred different ways.
We could build a separate hypothesis for each assumption
and then consolidate them down when we got
to the stage of deciding how we need to test each one.
Or we could just do the biggest assumptions
in one big test and come back
to the later ones after we've done our first round
of testing and if we think it's absolutely necessary.
Like I said, many, many different ways of doing this.
We, in this case, started off with an assumption
that happened to be the riskiest, but it also
happened to be something that's pretty low difficulty.
So according to our quadrant system
that is where we would start anyway.
In the next lecture, we're gonna talk about how you measure
whether or not your test end up being true.
It's a really, really important part
of this entire MVP process.
See ya then.

--- What's a minimum criteria for success? ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
In this lecture,
we're moving on to the next part of the process
of running an MVP.
Okay, so we know what a hypothesis is
and we know how to make one on our own, great.
We now have our sights set
on what exactly we're setting out to prove.
But you may or may not have noticed this,
but did we ever define what exactly proof`
or define what exactly success in this experiment means?
In one hypothesis, we said buy more,
so is that it?
If they buy more, we win?
And the other said X metric improves.
There are three different outcomes to an MVP test
you need to be aware of.
One is you find out
that your hypothesis is categorically false
and overwhelmingly not worth doing.
Great, you dump it.
It's not really a hard call.
Two, you find out that within a wide margin,
that your hypothesis is true,
no question about it.
And three, you're somewhere in the middle.
Now, here's the rub.
90% of the MVP experiments you're gonna run
as a product manager or as an entrepreneur
are gonna end up in situation three,
somewhere in the middle.
It's gonna look like some people like it and some don't.
And the numbers are gonna be all over the board.
It's probably gonna be a mess.
So in our pursuit to see if our users buy more,
what exactly do we mean?
If 2% of our users buy more,
or let's say our users don't even buy more
but they buy twice as frequently,
is that worth it to, say,
build something that takes three months
and four people to do it?
Well, it depends on the size of your company
and it depends on an internal calculation you have to make.
We need to establish a concept
called minimum criteria for success.
We need to draw a line in the sand
to definitively distinguish between worth it,
all systems are a-go,
and not worth it.
Now, why is setting
a minimum criteria for success important?
Well, because if you forget to set your MCS,
which is what I'm gonna start calling it from now on,
your definition of success,
you might end up conflating a validated hypothesis
with a clear signal to proceed.
They could be two different things.
You can validate your hypothesis for example
in a way that wouldn't make it worth it
to go out and start building everything.
Now, what if you just barely validate it?
Well, you gotta proceed with caution,
my young product manager friend.
The one last thing I'll say about why we use the MCS
is that it gives your experiments clarity and meaning.
We aren't just trying to improve stuff,
we're trying to improve stuff by X amount.
So how do we figure out
where our line in the sand should be?
Well, creating a minimum criteria for success
is relatively simple.
And like the hypothesis exercise,
there are roughly about a million different ways to do it.
We're gonna take into consideration and outline
two sections in this process.
On the left, we're gonna put
the cost of building your product feature
or the cost of making the change
to your prior existing product.
And on the right,
the second section,
we're gonna put the expected reward.
What do you expect to see in return?
Now the next step
is to fill both of these sections with criteria.
Whatever criteria you choose,
it should probably be criteria
that clearly signals not only success,
but that your idea is a viable option for your company.
Popular ideas that are monetarily unsustainable
are not generally great ideas.
I know someone need to tell that to Silicon Valley.
So starting in reverse order,
let's start on the right
with our expected reward section of this calculation.
And we're gonna pick a metric that we hope will improve
as a result of building our product feature
or making our change.
If we're for instance adding additional sharing features
to a social network,
then we're probably targeting engagement, right,
or some other aspect we've identified
as being crucial to our specific business.
So that could be time spent on page,
it could be actions per session,
it could be number of likes,
or something very literal like number of shares.
Every experiment you run as a product manager
is gonna be pointed at something.
When we talk later in depth about metrics,
we have an entire section on it,
you'll realize that all metrics
in some way or other are interconnected.
And you as a product manager,
you'll have to have your eye on a couple or a handful
that you associate with product growth or product success.
Whatever metric you put here
needs to either be directly or indirectly related
to one of those crucial metrics.
Otherwise this is an entirely pointless endeavor
and you're trying to inflate what we call false metrics.
So put down the potential metrics
you hope are going to be moved by your experiment.
If you're building a new product,
it'll probably be things
like percentage of people signing up,
conversion rate,
open rate if you use email as a distribution channel,
percentage of positive reactions, even.
Things that indicate interest from a potential customer.
Or it could be literally
like how much money does each customer make us?
We'll talk in one of the next lectures
about pre-product scenarios specifically
and how to tweak this for that type of situation.
For now, we're gonna focus more on adding features
and, or trying to improve user behavior.
Okay, once you're done writing out on the right side,
let's go to the left side.
On the left side,
we need to brainstorm the costs
of doing what we're proposing to do.
Every experiment is gonna cost something
and you need to have a decent understanding
of what's at stake.
So let's say you're a company
and you're going to add X feature.
What does X feature end up costing your company?
Well, in this hypothetical,
it's probably going to take developers' time, your time,
other people's time.
It's probably going to take up some sweet hot cash.
Keep in mind also that time is money,
even outside of what you buy
or what you contract to get this done.
So we can reasonably assume no matter what
that there's always gonna be some form of a dollar amount
to building what it is that we're proposing.
Well, let's try to brainstorm
of what could we possibly have to end up buying
in order to do this?
Well, we probably need to promote the feature in some way.
And even if we don't pay money necessarily for ads,
there's also displacement of other ad inventory
you could have used,
or lost opportunity
because you just took up an email
that you could have spent on something else.
There are other things
you need to take into consideration as well
like opportunity cost,
which is a little abstract,
but yes, it is a thing.
If you pursue X and fail
then you could have pursued Y and succeeded.
You are one successful feature shorter.
There are other things like pride, brand, morale,
but these things are really up to you
to self-identify as important to you and your company
and put them down
because it's not necessarily true for every single company.
So think about what the effects
of running the experiment are going to be.
Take into consideration your organizational size as well.
Large organizations, as we previously learned,
are not gonna run scrappy experiments.
The calculus for them is just different.
They're probably gonna go with something a little meatier
because they have to put their name on it.
So factor that brand aspect
and that aspect
that they're gonna be around after this MVP experiment
into your calculation.
Okay, now that we've talked
about how there are basically two signs to every calculation
for a minimum criteria for success
and we've discussed roughly
what are potential metrics you could put in each section,
in the next lecture,
we're going to work
on coming up with a minimum criteria of success
that works for a theoretical position, see you then.

--- Creating a formula for your MCS ---

-: All right, so we have both sides
of the equation outlined and we've identified
both the things we are trying to effect.
We've also identified the things that it will cost
if we actually decide to go full steam ahead
and build out whatever our wildest dreams have in store.
Now, you at home that are bright probably already know
that whatever experiment that we run,
we need the potential upside probably to outweigh the cost.
And since we're setting our line in the sand of success
in one specific spot, we need to identify
at what point does the benefit outweigh the cost.
And that's how we figure out that line.
So, let's just do that.
I suggest starting on the left-hand side first
so we know exactly what we're spending to make this happen.
The left side also is in general easier
to calculate because it's based off of cold, hard facts,
whereas the right side is a little more speculative.
Now, for demonstration purposes, let's say we work
at our favorite big, bloated bluebird, the Twitter bird.
Let's say for some reason we wanted to add a feature
that allowed us to hover over any link
that someone shared or tweeted and see a pop-up
of whatever that link was referencing.
It's clunky. It's unnecessary.
But hey, it's Twitter.
It's not like they ever said no to a feature request.
Let's try to figure out a rough cost associated
if we pursued this new feature.
Let's start with development time because there will have
to be people programming this to make it actually happen.
If you work in tech, this is frequently going
to be one of the most relative things you have
to take into consideration.
Now, you don't need to be a developer to calculate this,
but you will have to do a little bit of outside research.
You might have to talk to your developers.
And if you're using a contractor,
well, they're generally required
to give you this information upfront anyway.
Let's make up some fake details.
Let's say our feature edition,
which is massively scaled back
in its first iteration will take two developers
two weeks to develop.
So now, we've established what the loss
of time is going to be.
These developers, let's say they make $100,000 a year.
They probably make more, to be honest,
but we'll say $100,000, make it simple.
So, that means roughly rounded down to $8,000 a month,
two weeks inside of a month, 4K for each of them.
You're spending $8,000 to try this, just in labor costs.
It's also gonna take your time and other people's time.
So, let's just for giggles assume it takes part-time effort
for you for two weeks, as well.
So, let's add in another $2,000.
You generally will get paid roughly the same as developers.
That makes the grand total of labor time
at $10,000 just to try out our pop-up.
Now, let's say that you're gonna buy some ads
to announce the launch of this feature
and also to drive traffic to test it in its first version.
So, maybe add in an extra $3,000.
That means our total cost could theoretically be $13,000.
That is a finite number that we can now work with.
Fantastic, now we have a cost baseline, really helpful.
Now, does this number have to be exact?
Well, no, not necessarily, but you should be in a position
to gather information you need to make a decent estimate.
If you're using too fuzzy of math,
that probably just means that you were lazy.
At the same time, don't try to spend your entire life trying
to calculate this down to the penny because
if it's worth it, it's going to obviously be worth it.
It's not gonna be something where you only make it worth it
by $10 or $5 or some thin margin.
Now that we know the theoretical cost,
let's think what else could be built in that time.
And that brings us to the other thing
that it's gonnna cost us, opportunity costs.
Opportunity costs, specifically in this case,
is probably small because, hey, it's not a huge feature.
But that still is time those developers
could have spent fixing bugs or building something else,
or even time spent collaborating
on a newer, much larger feature.
Regardless, we now have a cost baseline.
We've satisfied the requirements
for the left side of our calculation.
From the looks of it, depending on how large
your organization is, this is probably not a huge risk.
So, we probably have some flexibility on the right side,
and we start talking about what we need in return.
Let's now try to think critically
about what metric has to move what amount
to justify the cost we've just established.
Now, big risks need big rewards
and small risks are okay with small rewards.
That's just generally how this works.
So, if we're pulling two guys off the development team
and taking 50% of our time, plus some ad money,
and the fact that we could be building something else,
what's it gonna make to make this worth it?
This is generally just up to you and your team.
You will know what's a big deal and what's not.
Now, outside of that internal decision you guys make,
the best way and the best practice for going
about this is to just settle on one specific metric.
Two metrics becomes too confusing and it makes it hard
to really verify success, so just pick one.
Second, try to think past these metrics
and what exactly they mean.
If you have an app that makes money off ads, let's say,
well then, increasing the time a user stays
on your site will increase revenue, that's important.
If you're a startup and you increase user growth by 15%,
could that then affect your ability to raise money?
Think through what your organization needs as a whole,
and if you can't think of anything with regards
to business requirements, well,
that's a great sign that you're out of touch
and you probably need a refresher on your company's vision.
Let's try some scenarios for the reward side
of our calculation.
Maybe we calculate a money effect,
a direct effect on revenue.
Let's say we're thinking that the addition of this feature,
although limited, will in our task group raise conversion
to a paid program, let's say it's
from free program to paid, by some amount.
That's easy because then we just have to figure out
what is more worth it, $13,000
or that increase which then gives us more money.
Which number's larger?
Or maybe you can say, "Well, we have a year-long goal
of raising our average minutes consumed by 40%.
To keep us on that 40% path, we need to see an improvement
and at least 4% since that's roughly the equivalent
of a month that it's gonna take us a month worth
of time labor-wise to develop this."
Now, I said a month because opportunity costs.
It's two weeks working on this feature,
but if it doesn't work out,
you could've spent two weeks on a different one.
So, it's kind of a double jeopardy situation.
The point is, try to align this
as some bigger goal if you can.
Now, guys, be aware, this is napkin math
when you're a product manager.
You're not always going to have the actual numbers available
most times when you do this.
Sometimes, you're going to be adding numbers to potatoes,
then squaring them by smiles,
and then dividing them by green.
It can oftentimes be more abstraction than accounting.
At the end of this calculation,
you should know what metric you want to improve.
How big of a cost is it going to take,
and then in your head make a basic ---for-tat statement
that says, if it's gonna cost X,
we need to see Y improvement, or Y metrics
to justify giving the thumbs-up and going ahead with this.
All right, so you now know how to think about
and put together a minimum criteria for success.
The next lecture, we're gonna talk specifically
about pre-product scenarios and startups.
How do you do it if you don't
already have internal established metrics?
See you then.

--- OPTIONAL: Making the calculation for startups ---

-: Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course.
Let's talk a little bit about startups
or pre-product situations and how this process defers
for calculating your minimum criteria for success.
Now, when you're running the show with an existing product,
an existing user base, and potentially existing revenue
you're going to be, one, more concerned
with certain metrics and, two, less sensitive
to certain types of risks and certain types of costs.
PM's at a big company generally care
about metrics that are just not of concern to entrepreneurs
or people who are trying to figure out whether
or not their product should exist in the first place.
Average minutes consumed is not very important
if you have zero customers
and you're only getting 1% of your people to even sign
up for your service, two different worlds.
Specifically in the case of a startup
you're looking for what we call validation metrics.
Is my product a good idea?
Does it meet a user need?
Does my identified problem really exist?
What exactly is a validation metric?
Well, it's something that demonstrates real interest
from your potential customers:
percentage of people that sign up,
percentage of people that share your post,
average purchase price,
how many people open your email?
Those are examples.
You're also more concerned
with the economic viability of the project as a whole.
It's hard to justify how much money exactly
a feature will make, but a product is relatively easy.
So we're probably going to look
at things like lifetime value and things like gross margins.
So the biggest difference when you're
doing this pre-product
it's really going to be the right side of our equation.
Rewards are just gonna be different for you.
You're gonna be looking
for specific things that signal interest
and not necessarily some behavioral change you expected
to happen.
You're also not gonna be as concerned with opportunity costs
because if it fails and you flop, you're probably looking
for a new job.
So make sure that you understand the nuance between the two,
because as a product manager, you might find yourself
in both situations.
All right, so at this point in the process
we know what we wanna build.
Ideally, it's whether it's a product or a feature
or a big change to the product you already have.
We know what we need to test assumption wise
and we know what outcome we want to get out of these tests.
All right, now let's shift our focus to the ways
and the tools that are available to us
to get the actual testing job done.
When you run MVP experiments, you're always going to present
in some way, shape, or form
something that implies your new feature
or product is already real and or coming very soon.
This, obviously is not the case
because internally we actually haven't decided yet
whether or not we wanna build it.
Now, the extent to which you need to fake this
in order to get the information you need is
what's going to determine what type of MVP you need.
So let's list them out and briefly discuss them.

--- MVP techniques: emails, shadows, & whoops ---

-: Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course.
All right, so at this stage in the game
we know what we want to build ideally
whether it's a product, feature,
or a large change to the product we already have.
We also know what types
of assumptions we need to test to get to the truth,
and we also know roughly what outcome
we want to see out of these MVP tests.
Let's now take a slight turn and start
talking about the ways and the tools
that are available to us to get this testing job done.
First off, when you run MVP experiments,
you're always going to present in some way, shape, or form,
something that implies your new feature or product
is already real and/or coming very soon.
The reason why we do this, if you remember
is because we need validated learning.
We need our potential customers, or users,
to be in real live situations where they don't know
they're being tested to see how they actually behave.
That is the data we crave,
and that is the data that we have to rely on.
Now, it's obviously not the case that
you have built what you are saying you have
because internally we haven't yet decided that.
Now, the extent to which you need to fake it
in order to get the information you need is
what's going to determine what type of MVP you need.
So let's list them out and briefly discuss them.
In the following lectures,
we'll cover each one a little bit more in depth,
talk about pros and cons and when to use them,
and in the spirit of faking it, let's start,
and let's start with the ones that are the most fake,
and we'll get towards the end where
we talk about the ones that require less fakery.
All right, so the first MVP technique
is what we call the email MVP.
It's the simplest one out there.
All you need to run an email MVP is an email client,
some of your email list, user base,
and maybe some basic wordsmithing skills.
As an established company, you already have
a list of users, and most likely
you communicate with them on a frequent basis.
I can't really think of any company
that doesn't use email marketing in and at least some way.
So your users are already used to
buying things, or signing up for things,
or engaging with the content and the emails you send them.
They're already ready to have a test run on them.
By taking a small segment of your user population
and emailing them a pitch for a new feature or new product,
you can see exactly how they'll react in a simulated,
"This is real." quote unquote scenario.
Whether or not this is a good idea as a PM
is a different question, and we'll cover that
in the lectures where we go more into depth,
but right now we're just covering what they are.
Product managers and our pre-product,
also known as early founders,
can use this one quite effectively.
Even if you don't have an email list already,
you can gather a list of emails from potential customers
i.e. people that fit your target demographics,
or your target customer segmentation,
and send this out in much of the same way.
You'll probably take a much more personal tone
to avoid getting flagged as spam,
but it's a very viable way of testing,
and it is literally the simplest way of doing this.
If anyone's familiar with AppSumo,
they sell new products all the time in this way.
In fact, they're kind of like a daily deals website,
but for marketing and entrepreneurial tools.
They routinely test their new products
by sending out email MVPs before they acquire or build them.
They generally just say, "Hey, this is real.
Come sign up." and if they're even more brazen,
and I've seen this, they'll put an order button in the email
and see if people actually buy right out of the email.
All right, so that's an email MVP.
The next one we're gonna talk about
is called the shadow button MVP,
and this is one that's very specific to product managers.
A shadow button MVP generally requires
more resources to do than an email MVP,
but it's still on the whole very easy to pull off.
Now, what companies will do instead of building
out a new feature is they'll put a button
within their already made product
that supposedly links the person to this new feature.
When the person clicks that button,
it registers that they did it,
and either one does nothing and just looks broken
or two shows texts saying, "Sorry, this is coming soon.".
That is in essence a shadow button.
Again, people don't know if it's real,
so when we observe their behavior in this scenario,
we can generally consider it valid.
People act entirely differently when they
think something is real versus
if they don't have any reason to think it's not real.
You'll hear this over and over again.
Oftentimes you'll see shadow buttons be used
in midsize startups that are really trying
to triage their nice to have features.
Which login would you offer at first?
Let's say you're a startup deciding
between email login, Facebook login, Twitter, Google
and let's say LinkedIn login.
Well, instead of implementing all of those,
which is a decently large task,
you just put fake buttons for them
and record if people actually try to use them.
If they don't use them,
then you know it's not worth putting in just yet.
Now is the shadow button MVP a good idea?
Anytime I say this, Cole just cringes.
Again, we'll talk about that in another lecture.
All MVPs depend on your organization,
your size and some other factors we'll discuss.
The next two types of MVPs I've actually lumped together.
There's one, it's called the 404 page,
and the two which is called the Coming Soon page.
They're really similar to each other,
but they're just slight variations,
and that's why we'll discuss them together.
In this MVP tactic, what you do is again
act like you're adding a new feature or a product,
and when the user navigates to the page that is designated
as the new feature, or product, or section of your site,
it either displays a 404 message,
404 meaning server cannot find this page,
you'll find us any time a server's not working,
or you click to a a page that's old
and it's no longer there, or a page that says,
"Thank you for your interest. The product is coming soon,"
and then often we'll ask them to
sign up or display interest some way.
Now, you might be thinking to yourself,
"Hey this is way too scrappy.
My big company in our beautiful brand and blah
blah, blah, blah, blah.
We can't use this possibly."
Well, guess what?
Guess who uses this technique every single day
to test demand for new products?
Amazon.
Amazon.com is the king of using the 404 page
or the coming soon signup page.
Amazon uses this extensively to see
if their existing user base is interested
in a new side project or even a new category of goods.
They track the interest against
their criteria of success and there you go.
That's how they know where to put their resources
and where to expand the Amazon empire.
It also works great for them
because they have so many random things
attached to their brand that have nothing to do
with the core value proposition, so it kind of makes sense.
Oculus Rift, if you guys ever seen
that virtual reality goggle system,
we have an activity on it actually,
is another great example of a company
that launched in a very similar way.
They just put up a pre-order page.
I'm sure you've seen companies have launched
with Kickstarter pages.
They did the same thing.
It's the same thing as a coming soon page.
We're coming soon, sign up or pre-order,
or get your foot in the door by paying us money.
The difference with Oculus Rift was that when they did that,
all they had was a very rough prototype,
and I don't honestly know if it even worked,
and the only other thing was a a way to pay in advance,
so that pretty much is an MVP.
Whew.
All right, guys, let's take a break.
Now that we've learned three of them,
try to digest that one.
Don't worry if you feel
like you're a little bit lost on some of these,
we're gonna cover them in more depth later.
Feel free to pick which ones you want to dive into.
Take a break.
We'll start with the next batch in the next lecture.
See you then.

--- More MVP techniques: walk me throughs & pitch experiments ---

-: Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course.
Let's dive right back in
and start talking about more MVP techniques.
Now we're gonna start talking
about ones that require more resource investment
look a little more real, less scrappy
but still pretty scrappy.
All right, so the next one we're gonna talk
about is called the Explainer MVP.
This is a little bit harder to do
because it requires some resources to make.
Explainer, if you don't know what I'm talking about
or those videos that explain what an app does
or what a new feature or feature set will do
they come in two different types.
You have tutorial style explainer
and sales styled explainer.
In a tutorial style, you'll see someone manually
explaining over a screen cast, much in the same
way that companies use Tutorial Screen Casts to
explain how to do certain tasks in their product.
In this version, someone will pretend to use a new feature
or product and explain what it does and why they made it
but they haven't actually built it yet.
It's all smoke and mirrors
and actually the way it looks real is in editing.
In editing
you create this illusion that you have a working product
by animating certain things and having them, for instance
navigate from one static page to another static page.
They're not connected, they don't work
but you'll just cut the video, so it looks like they do.
Sounds a little nutty.
Yeah, it does.
But this is actually a fairly common way
of re-validating before you build.
True story, this is actually how Dropbox started.
Dropbox, not familiar multi-billion dollar
company that lets you store anything
in their data servers through a desktop and browser client.
When the founder first started Dropbox
he wanted to test to see
if people wanted this idea, this cloud storage idea
where you could sync your files very seamlessly
to servers somewhere else
and have access to your files anywhere you go.
So what he did is he just made a fake video
of him using his product and put it on YouTube.
The response was huge, so he knew it was worth building.
The other type of explainer is the Sales related explainer
and this is just more when you make more like a fake promo
video that pitches the product or the feature using
Who knows?
It could be one of those, you know, whiteboard videos
with a super fake looking hand that comes up in the middle
and right, or you could use an animated one or even
a talking head video like this as your promo.
A decent example I actually saw the other day was a company
called Framework that makes a collaborative web app
for video editors and producers.
We actually use it to make our courses.
They made a video pitching a new set of features
and added all sorts of crazy animations
and cg, but actually those features had not
been added yet at all.
-: They just said it was launching very soon
and to sign up for a notification.
Presumably, if not enough people signed up, then who knows?
Maybe they just wouldn't launch the feature
and maybe it just disappear.
Either way, no one is the wiser.
The point is that this MVP works
because real products generally will have promotion videos
of some kind, and real features will often
have tutorial videos showing how to use them.
So you just kind of slip
in and explainer video and there you go.
That's your validation.
The next MVP we're gonna discuss is called the
Fake Landing Page/Pitch Experiment MVP.
This is when a business will create one singular
page that pitches all of the benefits of a new product
and then has a call to action somewhere on the page.
So you might not know what some
of these terms are that I just used.
Let's break it down just a little bit.
Landing pages are a term used
for webpages that are just one page.
They're a marketing tool so that companies can run ads
and have a very controlled experience.
When people move from that ad to that site.
It doesn't generally make sense to have an ad for, let's say
an E-commerce store that just added the new iPhone SE.
And when people click
on the ad that says, We have the iPhone
they go to the homepage of your E-commerce store.
Where nowhere on the page are you talking about the iPhone.
The person generally will get confused
and will probably leave, so that's one of the primary uses
of landing pages, although they are pretty versatile
and essentially, if you want your users to
specifically do something like sign up or pay or fill
out a form, you're probably gonna use a landing page.
Now, the other term I used was pitch experiment.
Now, this is just a nifty little term worth knowing
although you might not ever actually use it in conversation.
It's a term from the Lean Startup Framework.
A pitch experiment is basically when you have
an online experiment where you pitch for a new product
or a new feature to an online audience
and you see what they do.
Landing pages are a natural fit for this because they're one
completely focused page that you can deliver a product
or feature pitch directly to the user.
Whether they like it or not, they can't ignore it.
As far as MVPs go, the landing page pitch experiment
it's kind of the gold standard, at least
for entrepreneurial MVP test.
Got an idea for a product, create a fake product page
and drive traffic to it, See how they react.
Product managers with existing user bases can also
use this technique quite well.
Instead of getting external traffic, you're just
gonna drive your internal traffic
to a page through an email.
Internal ads, push notifications, whatever.
Now, two classic examples
of a landing page pitch experiment are one
a company called Buffer and two, a company called Basecamp.
Let's talk about them.
Buffer. Buffer is an online service.
You haven't actually heard of it.
That helps you manage your company's social media
messaging campaigns.
What are the main things it'll do is help you
schedule when your messages go out in advance
so you don't have to have someone sitting
at the computer writing all of your Facebook posts.
Now, Buffer started off by creating a fake page
pitching what their service would do
and then just drove traffic to the page.
They actually set it up in a way where they put
up pieces of what they thought about adding
and then when they saw what things people interacted with
they kind of just use it as
like a puzzle piece, Jigsaw puzzle put together
what their product should actually end up being.
Now, Basecamp, on the other hand
is an online project management tool
something that's often compared to Asana
or Trello or any other popular project management tools.
-: They didn't necessarily start with a landing page.
They actually came out
of a a web development studio called 37 Signals
and it was a side project, but they are very well known
for using landing pages to pre validate any feature
or new side project.
Any time they have a new side project
they make Landing pages that say
This is what it does, this is why it's awesome.
Here's some more information, some photos
and you should buy it or sign up for it.

--- Even more MVP techniques: bellhops, Dorothy, & Frankensteins ---

-: All right, so the next MVP we're gonna cover
is the concierge service MVP.
Concierge is for those of you
that didn't grow up in a mansion.
It's a service where you get one-on-one support
from someone who manually walks you through some task.
It's like a concierge desk at a fancy hotel.
If you call the concierge, you can ask them to do
pretty much anything, and they'll try
to personally help you do it.
So in this MVP, instead of making the feature or product,
what you can do is launch an informal offering
to a small subset of users or potential users.
Tell them it's a beta program,
or just tell them it's a new thing that you're planning out
and just starting to do.
Then you can manually help them accomplish the task
your proposed feature or product would do.
The idea here is that if you are manually there
to help them accomplish their task, you can see firsthand
whether or not what you are doing is helpful and necessary.
Let's give an example.
Let's say Amazon wanted to build a bot,
and that bot could take written request and then go
and fetch things it thought the customer might want.
Sounds like a really expensive thing to build, right?
Well, what you can do instead of building
that complex algorithm is just find some power users
and say, "Hey, we're launching a new service.
Tell us what you're looking for and we'll come back
with personalized recommendations."
And then through email, just help them fetch the items.
See if they like it,
and see if they continue to ask for more things.
And also, see exactly what they plan to use the service for.
That then tells you who to focus on
and what areas to prioritize when you launch.
A great example of a concierge MVP in action
was a company called Rent the Runway.
Startup a long time ago, very successful now.
They'd rent out really fancy dresses
to women who want really fancy dresses
but don't wanna buy them forever.
They just wanna wear then once.
They launched with an in-person concierge service
on college campuses where they physically helped women
pick dresses, get them,
stock them, organize them,
return them, and then charge them.
It was a hit.
It was easy to figure out what people wanted.
They built the product around their feedback,
and the rest is history.
And the next MVP we're gonna talk about
is the piecemeal MVP.
A piecemeal MVP is where, instead of building out
your product, you take what's available
in the form of out-of-the box softwares,
and by piecing those softwares together,
you can match the functionality you need
to test the basic version of what you're tryna build.
Now, there are tons and tons of platforms out there,
and that's why this works.
You can use a Weebly, or a Wix, or a Squarespace
to create a page that can take orders,
send emails, send text messages.
Really do a lot.
You can stick softwares like Formstack, or Typeform,
or Jotform ,to create forms that can do
advanced calculations and have advanced features.
You wanna send text messages
and have entire systems built off that?
You can use Twilio.
You can use Recurly to manage subscriptions.
There are just tons and tons of services out there
for almost anything you can think of doing.
Now, with some creativity,
you can take these things and stick them together
into a Frankenstein.
(thrilling music)
Actor: It's alive.
-: That gets the job done until you can then justify
using real resources.
Groupon's a great example of a company that uses MVP.
Groupon's that company that for so long
just bombarded your email inbox with flash deals
on things from spa packages, the skydiving,
to that restaurant you've vaguely heard of.
Well, they didn't want to build out the complex system
to take orders, manage their clientele,
the actual stores, and generate the coupons,
so they instead created their site on WordPress,
and this is back when they're called The Point.
The WordPress site then would email
every time there was an order, and then they would use
Apple Mail in a thing called AppleScript.
So that when they receive an email,
it could just run some basic logic on it
and generate a coupon that would then auto send back
to the person who needed it.
All right, so we're at the last MVP tactic
that we're going to cover.
This one's called the Wizard of Oz MVP.
♪ We're off to see the Wizard ♪
♪ The wonderful Wizard of Oz ♪
-: A Wizard of Oz MVP is an MVP that from the front
looks to be completely made, but all the task that computers
and automated systems would normally be doing,
it's actually carried out manually
behind the scenes by an individual.
It's just a fact of engineering
that when you build a web or mobile product,
the largest portion of your effort is going to be dedicated
towards making the server-side logic,
i.e., the parts of the website that make it work
but no one ever physically sees.
So in this MVP, you take advantage of that.
You develop a front-end design
that looks entirely functional,
but you just have someone ready on standby to fulfill
whatever the user thinks should be happening in the app.
So let's say you had a social network,
and you wanted to start a feature that matched people
based off of their interest and their profile information.
Instead of building out the complex algorithm
for matching people
and then seeing if people want to use it after the fact,
you could build out the button that says "Match me."
And then every time someone clicks that,
you manually had someone look through their profile
and match them to someone, email them the results.
Voila! Now, why do we call it Wizard of Oz?
Well, did you watch The Wizard of Oz?
I mean, it's a classic,
but remember when they get
through the entire Yellow Brick Road,
only to find out the great Wizard of Oz was actually a man
behind a curtain pulling levers to make special effects
to create that giant emerald face that was so scary.
-: I am Oz.
The greatest Oz has spoken.
-: Who are you?
-: Who are...
I-I am the great and powerful Wizard of Oz.
-: So this is the software version of that.
The classic example of this was Zappos.
They created a online shoe store,
but they didn't stock any shoes.
When people ordered through their online store,
they walked across the street and bought it
from an actual brick and mortar store then mailed it.
That way, they didn't have to build any server-side logic,
they didn't have to buy any inventory,
and they could pretty much say they offered
whatever the people down the street offered.
All right, guys, that's the whirlwind tour
of all the MVPs that you need to know about.
The following lectures, we're gonna talk
about each one in depth.
You can skip some of them if you're not interested
in a specific one.
Otherwise, I'll see you then.
Witch: I'm melting! Melting!
Oh, what a world! What a world!

--- In depth: Email based MVPs ---

-: Hey guys. Welcome back.
Let's talk a little bit more in detail
on the concept of that first MVP we talked
about called the email based MVP.
Let's cover what the pros and cons are.
You are after all going to have to decide
whether or not this is a good idea given your situation
as a product manager.
You could have guessed it, but this technique is best suited
for smaller organizations that do not yet have
much brand anxiety, as I call it.
The pros of this are simple.
You can do it very quickly.
You can limit your testing group to a small
but statistically significant group of people easily,
and you can segment your users as long
as you've collected secondary data on them.
What I mean is if you collect, say, usage statistics
or basic profile information, you can easily tie that
to their email address and then when you need to say
launch a test to your power users
you can then pick only the email addresses
that fit that specific group based off of their usage stats.
Okay, so it's cheap, it's fast, it's targeted
and you can limit the damage.
Oh, and also anyone can do it.
No bugging your developers to run this one pretty much ever.
Now the cons are that they can come off sloppy.
It's not standard practice to ask people
to, say, buy something straight out of an email,
so you might run the risk of having it look
a little bit odd.
You also might dent your brand
if you're not careful to match the general tone
of how your normal email marketing campaigns
and conversations happen.
If you do decide to go down this path and try it out
here are some tips to make it worth your while.
Number one is be aware of what your audience expects of you.
Are you a luxury brand or a bargain outlet?
Different audiences have different tolerances
for this technique.
The example we used before was AppSumo.
They can get away with it because they sell flash deals,
so their normal product offering often looks
like it's rushed anyway.
They also sell to entrepreneurs who are used to being
in beta groups and they're used to seeing pre-launched
products and MVPs.
Number two, try your best to match the production value
of the emails your company usually uses.
In your normal email campaigns.
You probably have templates, designs, and probably
some embedded images or videos.
If that's the case, try to match the same, add some images
add some video, and by all means, try to use the
exact same design.
I'm sure your designers will lend you the template file.
As for images, you don't need to bug anyone.
There are a slew of easy to use tools that can help you
crank these out really easily.
My favorite by far is Canva.
Check it out.
I put it in the resources.
Number three is try to at a minimum, pair this
with a landing page or another MVP technique.
For instance, a concierge service.
You can pitch the idea in the email and then have
a link that goes to the landing page for more information,
or in the email ask them to respond, state their interest,
and then run them like they're
in a beta program through a concierge service.
Email by itself is kind of tacky
so you can optimize it by adding in other techniques.
If you think in the email, MVP will fly
with your crowd and your company will go for it,
well then try it out,
but be careful as to not make it look too cavalier.
All right guys,
in the next lecture, let's talk more about shadow buttons.
See you then.

--- In depth: Shadow buttons ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Let's talk a little bit more in depth about that other MVP
that I called the shadow button.
All right, now shadow buttons are fake buttons
put on an app that just track when they're clicked
and that's literally it.
If you're scratching your head wondering where
you've seen this before, you might not remember.
They're pretty subtle.
Here's one I actually found the other day.
If you guys ever go to uncommongoods.com,
try to log in in the sales page with Facebook.
What you'll see is an image pop up or text pop up
and say, "Thank you for voting to add Facebook login."
Great example of a shadow button.
Shadow buttons are good because they give you great data.
That is pretty much as close
as you're going to get to showing
that someone is in fact interested in your new feature.
It's also pretty easy to do.
Your developer can probably do it over lunch.
The downside though, is obvious.
It doesn't look good.
No one who's ever interacted
with a shadow button said, "Wow, that was awesome."
They probably think, "What was that?
Is this broken?"
Because that's what it looks like.
It looks like your site is broken.
Now, that's okay if you're maintaining a product
that has a reputation for having bugs
and has a user population that's just gotten used to it.
I'm not saying be complacent about it.
You should fix your bugs.
But let's just say if you, to me, for example
had a new feature when I clicked on it, it just did nothing.
Well, I wouldn't even notice because let's be honest,
I probably ran into 15 different bugs
and broken things before I even got to the shadow button.
Shadow buttons are sneaky.
Great data, but they create a universally negative response
from your users.
It's just a question of whether or not
the user cares about the polish of your product.
If you do decide to go this route,
let's cover some best practices.
Number one, do it just like Uncommon Goods
did it like you saw.
Put a message that says, Thank you for clicking
and acknowledge what it is.
That softens the blow
because intentional bug is way better than a bug
that they aren't aware of and simply can't fix.
Number two is limit the amount of users
that see this as much as possible.
You can calculate what number of people need to see it
to be statistically significant
be as close to that line as possible.
In summary, it's easy to do.
It's very valid data, generally not a good thing
for your brand, so have a hard think about
whether or not you think your users are tolerant enough
to be okay with this type of testing.

--- In depth: Coming soon & 404 MVPs ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Let's talk about the best practices
of using the 404 page
or the Coming Soon page
type MVP to test out your new feature product idea.
Chances are you've seen these before,
but you probably don't remember them.
Why?
Well, because it generally just feels
like nothing out of the ordinary.
As for the 404 MVPs
these are some of the hardest MVPs to spot
because how do you even know if it was a test or not?
It could just be that the page was broken.
And Coming Soon pages are nowadays everywhere,
half of which never materialize into anything at all.
Now, how do we choose between running a 404
or a Coming Soon page?
Well just ask yourself this question.
If I'm a user, would I rather think the page is broken
or that the page was misleading?
Which of these two options is least evil for you?
Whatever you say, that's probably the way you should go.
The companies that can get away with 404s are the ones
that generally have tons and tons of pages.
Why?
Because if you see a 404,
you can still jump to another product and keep browsing.
Not a lot of damage done.
Amazon does this all the time
because they have 10 bajillion roughly
other pages you can look at.
Clothing companies run variations of this all the time.
They'll add new items,
but make them out of stock, and that's totally normal.
No one notices this.
The companies that generally get away
with Coming Soon page MVPs are often companies
that are smaller and where the audience is aware
that they are in fact new.
Those companies are already working
with their early adopters.
And those of you guys that completed my MVP course
know that early adopters
generally have very tough skin
when it comes to this stuff.
They generally revel in the fact
that they are cutting edge so in a weird way,
Coming Soon pages actually don't phase them at all,
they feel better about them.
Now, if walmart.com did this,
it would be considered universally tacky on the other hand.
So think about your user expectations
and which of these result in the least negative outcome.
Can they get over the broken page
and will this Coming Soon page peak their interest
or deflate it?
If you decide to go this route,
let's talk about some tips and best practices.
Number one is design it.
What do I mean?
Well, there is a world of difference between
a bland colorless page that really does look like
your site is broken,
and a clever, well designed 404 page
that actually might enhance your brand.
Check out the resources.
There are actually lists of 404 sites
that have done this really well.
Some of these 404s are actually really funny
and it endears you to the company
and allows the company to continue a conversation
with you that they otherwise wouldn't be able to.
The same goes for Coming Soon pages.
Put some effort into them.
Don't just use generic templates
and don't forget to proofread whatever you put up.
My best suggestion here is to use a tool
that is designed specifically for Coming Soon pages.
The two main ones being LaunchRock and KickoffLabs.
Those two sites will help you pull one together very quickly
and even let you import your own design assets
and make it look like a seamless continuation
of your product.
Sometimes you can't even tell
that you used a platform for it.
Number two is shorten the horizon
on these as much as possible.
You don't wanna see the same user
seeing the same 404 or Coming Soon page.
That's when that's annoying
turns into I'm angry,
so try to limit the length of these tests.
All right guys, see you in the next lecture.

--- In depth: Explainer videos ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Let's talk about explainer videos and how best to use 'em.
First off, let's answer the question
why do people use this technique versus others?
Well, it's simple actually.
Video converts much better than just text pages.
This is what every company on the planet is figuring out
and it's the reason you're seeing more and more
videos embedded everywhere including your Facebook newsfeed.
Another reason we might choose this is
because an explainer video can do a really good job
of getting across a product that needs in depth explaining.
Some products are just inherently complicated
which makes pitching them difficult.
You can cover way more ground in a shorter time
through a shnazzy video.
The next question is, when should we use these?
Well, an explainer video, as you remember me saying
can be a lot of work to create.
They often need videographers, editors
and potentially custom graphics.
On the flip side they can really excite your user base
if done well.
Let's look at a couple examples.
Narrator: Hello, this is Joe.
Joe runs his own business selling local goods.
But Joe has a big problem,
he's got too much to do and he can't find qualified help.
Everywhere Joe has looked he's only found
unqualified employees.
Then one day Joe called the solution company.
Over the phone the solution company was able to analyze
Joe's needs and match him with the qualified candidates.
Within days, Joe had a wide selection of qualified
pre-screened workers to choose from.
Thanks to the solution company, Joe can now sit back
and relax knowing he's got the right people
for the right job.
Do you want to find the right people for your business?
Call the solution company today.
Let the solution company provide you with pre-screened
and qualified candidates to grow your business.
(upbeat music)
-: So, how do you balance this exactly?
Well, like anything, it's gonna come down to your
organizational profile.
Companies that rely heavily on video already use
video frequently with their users,
and they're gonna be much more likely candidates
to use this type of test.
Why? Well, for one, you probably already have
the infrastructure to create half decent videos
without a significant amount of work
and outside recruitment.
Another reason is that if your users are used
to seeing video then they're more likely to respond
to video.
If you use a service like Wistia, you can see how many
of your users watch the entirety of your video.
Wistia, by the way is just a platform that lets you embed
videos in webpages, emails really anywhere,
and gives you detailed analytics
about how people engage with it.
Very similar to the YouTube analytics system.
If you run a content website that rarely uses video content
throwing an explainer video for a new feature
is probably going to get ignored
and skew the results of your test.
Same goes for websites that simply have older demographics.
Old people on video are just not really a thing.
My grandma, for the most part,
thinks the iPad is the work of the devil
and videos just don't really register with her.
As a funny aside, check out our Oculus Rift activity
if you haven't already.
There's a video of old people using Oculus Rift and it's
pretty hilarious.
-: My God, I'm not gonna electrocute myself, am I?
-: Snorkeling mask?
-: Something you would have in war time situation.
-: It's a space mask, I don't know.
Or something you wear for the Ebola crisis.
-: This could be some kind of mind control hypnotic thing
you're gonna try to pull on me.
-: Oh my, walking without using my feet.
-: It's very pretty out here.
I mean, it's all very fake looking, but it's beautiful.
-: Oh. Let's not do this.
-: Oh (beep).
-: What happened to the tracks?
(laughing)
We just jumped off the tracks.
There were no tracks.
-: Other things you take into consideration are your size
and your user's expectations.
If you have no online presence at all, i.e.
you're in that entrepreneurial pre-product scenario
and you can be as scrappy as you want.
My favorite way of making explainers in this case
is you just cheap software is like Powtoon, Go Animate
or even just hiring someone on Fiverr
to make a video for me.
If you haven't set the bar for quality yet,
you can get away with whatever quality you can afford
at the moment.
That flexibility is fantastic and embrace it.
If you're larger, however and you have already dabbled
in video in some way be aware that you do have a quality bar
to get over.
If you make slick fun videos that your users are used to
then out of nowhere you create a poorly produced screen cast
with low quality voiceover.
The difference in what users expect
and what they find will taint their perception
of whatever you're trying to pitch.
The key here is to try to be as ordinary as possible.
You don't wanna stick out either way
relative to the other video content you use.
Explainers are an interesting way to go
but they're definitely something you need to
internally assess before you try it.
The bonus of using explainers is that in general
video is just more engaging with your users
and this increases the likelihood of being shared,
which is great.
Downside obviously though, is that it could just
simply not be your demographic.

--- In depth: Piecemeal MVPs ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Let's talk about one of the last types
of MVPs that we covered, the Piecemeal MVP.
Now piecemeal, if you remember,
is when you piece together other softwares
to create the functionality that you need.
To better help you visualize what this concept is,
because it's kind of confusing,
let's go over an example.
Let's say you had an online course like Udemy.
You're on it right now, watching the course.
Let's say you wanted to add a certificate of completion
so that anyone who finishes a course would get emailed a PDF
that says, "Yay, you've finished the course."
(children cheering)
Well, instead of building an auto PDF generator
and setting it up to know when the user finished the course,
maybe you just add a link to the end of the course
that takes them to a form.
They can then input their name into that form
with their email, and then they can get a PDF certificate
sent to them that way.
How you can make this work is by, let's say using Typeform,
which is a form software to create an online form
with a public access link.
Then you could have Typeform submit that information
into a Google Sheet.
If you've never used Google Sheet,
it's just Excel, but online,
which can then trigger something like Zoho Invoice
to create an invoice with the information
and send out an email.
There you go, it was 1, 2, 3 steps,
and you've accomplished your goals.
If you wanted to pursue this option,
the best way would probably be to physically write out
what your feature or product needs to do,
and then use those functions as, just,
search terms in Google by adding things like software
or online at the end of your search query.
You would be amazed at just how much you can get done
with available softwares that are out there.
Once you mark down what you think will do it,
then you just need to find what combination
is gonna work the best and cooperate together.
Typically, Piecemeal MVPs are best suited
for when you want to add some functionality to your product
that's relatively common.
If enough products and people start using, let's say,
text message reminders in their app,
eventually there's gonna be an online software
that tries to simplify adding that process,
and then makes money by saving companies the hassle
and the money of doing it from scratch themselves.
That's great, and can be a seamless integration for you.
When a Piecemeal MVP is not generally a good idea to pursue
is if you have, let's say,
multiple functionalities you need to implement,
because in general, it's kind of a pain
to get off-the-shelf software to cooperate with each other.
They can do it.
That's the hard part though,
especially when you're chaining them together.
It can get really complicated.
Oftentimes, you'll just end up running into dead ends
trying to find some obscure software
that needs to send some obscure information
to another obscure software.
It can become a hairball really quickly,
and you'll wish you didn't get into that.
If you do, for whatever reason,
decide that this is what you want to do, here are some tips.
Number one, Piecemeal MVPs are becoming quite popular
and online softwares are so common
that there are systems cropping up
that can actually help you facilitate interactions
between all of these softwares.
The two that are worth checking out are Zapier,
which I can never pronounce, it's Zapier or Zapier,
and the other one is IFTTT,
which stands for If This, Then That.
In both of these, you can tell it to say, you know,
every time a new note with this text is created in Evernote,
send information to MailChimp,
and then it can trigger MailChimp to do something else.
With some persistence, you can actually daisy chain together
a whole list of these different things
and you can get quite a bit done,
and these softwares will make it a lot easier for you.
Number two, as a product manager,
it's rarely the case that you're gonna get away with
sending people from one external app to another and another.
Look for softwares that allow white labeling, as in,
look for ones that allow you to put in your own images,
put in your own colors, and put in your own fonts,
or even better, look for the softwares that can integrate
into your existing product,
so it looks like it's part of your product.
That lowers the chance your users abandon the process,
and in general it just looks a lot more professional,
which is a problem with Piecemeal MVPs.
Sometimes they just don't look that great,
and people can tell
that you're just sticking a bunch of services together.
All right guys, so that's Piecemeal MVPs.
Any questions, post in the Q&amp;A and we'll jump on it.
Otherwise, moving on to the next lecture,
we're gonna talk about Concierge MVPs.

--- In depth: Concierge service MVPs ---

-: Hey guys. Welcome back to the course.
Let's talk about concierge MVPs.
As a refresher,
concierge style MVPs are where you manually help your users
accomplish their goals as a means of validating
whether or not they have a need
for what you're doing in the first place.
This is different than the Wizard of Oz MVP
and that you don't actually build out anything,
just some way of connecting your users to you
to get their participation and then secondly,
you are upfront in this scenario
about the fact that you don't yet have this feature.
Those are two key distinctions between the two.
Concierge MVPs are very common ways
to test the needs of your users
even in big companies.
The advantages are that you can run them almost in secret.
All you have to do is email a batch of users
and manage those relationships directly.
You don't even have to add any fake buttons to your website
or build any fake pages.
Another advantage is that
a concierge service is kind of like a hybrid
between customer development and MVP testing.
You do get to see how they react
and whether or not they're gonna use your service
in a meaningful way
but you also get the opportunity to ask why
and see what their internal reasoning is.
The cons of this type of experiment
are that they're really management intensive
and they can beat really time absorbing.
In most cases,
you yourself will wanna run the task
because you know,
you're the one who knows what questions to ask,
which then can add some serious
logistical issues for everyone
'cause you have other responsibilities.
You're also going to burn a lot of resources on one user.
You are just going to have to swallow the extra cost because
concierge services and concierge MVPs
are just very rarely profitable in and of themselves.
The only cases where a concierge
might actually make you money
is if you're selling luxury items,
in which case you can justify
spending a lot of time on one person.
So, how exactly do you run these experiments?
Let's try an example to help conceptualize this.
Let's say, you're a product manager for Uber.
You know what Uber is, right?
And then I probably don't have to tell you what it is.
You wanna know if adding,
let's say, a wheelchair accessible car option to your app
is worth pursuing.
You're not sure how many people exactly need it
and whether the drivers will get enough money
to stay on the system
if they're solely focused on serving that one type.
So, what you could do is pick a city,
take a handful of users and email them
talking about a beta program for handicap accessible cars.
You could also tell your regional managers
to ask around and forward any accounts they can find
that might benefit from the service.
The users that sign up then get a phone number
to text whenever they need pickup.
It's really that simple.
You could drive the car
or have one person drive the car
and you operate the text message.
You didn't actually have to develop anything to do this.
Then it's up to you to just track
how often people end up using the car,
whether or not they decide the weight is even worth it,
and whether or not they just end up switching
and using regular cars.
Also, the plus side is you get to talk to them
during the ride
and hear what the pros and cons of the setup are.
That's a realistic scenario
in which you could pull this off.
If you wanna assess
whether or not this is gonna work for your organization,
you need to think about the value of time.
If you're too in demand
and you simply can't be a hundred percent committed
to a concierge test,
then it might be the case that you try
some different way of MVP testing.
Similarly, if you need bigger data sets
to justify your decision
you're just not gonna get that with this technique
unless you're planning a giant expensive operation.
So, that is a concierge service.
It's cheap to run, but it takes a ton of your time.
Think deeply about whether or not
this is something that is gonna fit for you.
Generally, earlier in your company's history
if you're a smaller group,
that's generally where that's the sweet spot
for concierge tests.
But big organizations use them all the time.
All right, guys. See you the next lecture.

--- OPTIONAL: How do big companies think about MVP experiments? ---

-: Hey guys, and welcome back to the course.
Now, I know after watching the lectures
and all the different techniques you can use
to MVP your feature or product,
you might have been repeatedly
asking the question to yourself,
can I do any of these in a big well known organization?
What about our brand?
Well, it's a great question,
and so, in this lecture we're gonna talk about the answer.
So, how do big organizations run MVP tests?
Well, remember how we talked about the relationship
between risk and the size of your company?
Well, if you fell asleep, let me just recap it for you.
This is the gist, the gist is,
larger organizations have the resources
to weather failed products.
It doesn't mean that they want their products
to fail necessarily, but if they do,
it's not the end of the world.
So big organizations generally have a different
risk to reward calculus when it comes to
launching new products or new features.
A startup's main risk with a new product launch is
that they use up all of their resources.
That's the biggest risk for them.
But the risk big organizations care about
is comprised of a lot of other things,
one of which is the risk to their brand.
So when you've brought an MVP test,
you're going to have to decide
how much risk you can tolerate.
A general rule of thumb is that the larger the organization
the more concerned they will be with brand
and the less concerned they will be with resources.
Pre-product startups remember, care the least about brand
because what does it matter how strong your brand is
if you're dead and you don't exist anymore?
Now remember, when you run an MVP test
there are numerous ways of tackling this
and they all exist on a spectrum.
An email MVP is probably the easiest on resources
but the most reckless with your brand.
A Wizard of Oz MVP probably is the most resource intensive.
After all, you have to actually make the front end
of your supposed product,
but it's the most protective of your brand.
People don't even notice
that it's not officially your version one.
If done well, it won't look to the user
like anything is different.
But generally, companies are gonna reach a certain size
where they're beyond the tactics.
In those cases, as a product manager, you'll be expected
to build an MVP that is really more like what most people
incorrectly assume an MVP is.
It's a really, really basic version of your product.
And product managers in that type of situation
are calling it an MVP
just because they're used to calling it that
and everyone else knows what you're talking about.
Even if it's the case that you make Eric Reese cry.
Your job in these roles is to think about
how exactly you can build out your features,
but in a way that doesn't expend any unnecessary resources.
You can't rely on parlour tricks anymore.
You really have to build at least something,
you can't really half-step it.
The most common way that product managers
tackle this issue is through a type of MVP
we didn't actually cover.
This type of MVP is called the One Feature app.
A one feature MVP is exactly what it sounds like,
when you build out literally only one core function
of your product or feature
and then test its reception before slowly adding on more.
To do this well you need to take every function
in your feature, or every feature in your product,
and list them out.
After that, you rank it based on the value to your user.
In 99% of the cases, one function
or one feature is going to stand out
way more than the others in terms of value.
So you just build that.
Remember Foursquare?
It was this app where you could check
into local businesses or locations, you could win prizes,
you could network with other people, gather badges.
You could do about a million different things
that were all location based.
The core of Foursquare's idea though was,
can you guess it, to let people check into their locations
and let their friends know this.
So when they built their MVP
to see if anyone wanted to use this,
they just built literally that function.
You could connect your social networks
and then you could check in.
The check in would send out a text to your social networks.
They didn't add photos, they didn't add hashtags,
they didn't add badges,
because all of these things were really secondary in value
to the checking-in process,
which was the number one thing they cared about.
As a product manager,
you're gonna be constantly making hard decisions
about what to build and whatnot.
It's really no exception in the land of MVPs.
You'll have to gauge your company's tolerance for risk.
Do they care more about resources or more about brand?
And then figure out the best way
to optimize your resource expenditure
with the information that you need to gather.
It's exhausting, but I know you can do it.
So cheer up.
All right, guys, questions or concerns,
just post in the Q&amp;A and we'll get to those.
Otherwise, see you in the next lecture.

--- Evaluating results & Learning from them ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hey guys, Welcome back to the course.
I hope you didn't run out of gas in this section
because knowing how to design and put together
an effective MVP experiment is gonna be crucial
to being a successful product manager.
As a product manager, you're gonna hear the term MVP
and you're gonna be expected to follow
roughly the same process that we followed in this section.
Coming up with an idea, designing an experiment,
setting up your expectations, and then running a test
is how product managers decide what to add
and what to go forward with.
It's your flashlight in the dark, so to speak.
When you run your experiment and gather your data,
you're going to then take what you have
and compare it to your minimum criteria for success.
If it passes your bar, whoo, congratulations.
If it doesn't, then you need to see
if you can figure out why it didn't work.
Regardless of whether it worked or didn't work,
this is the time to sit down
and evaluate what you need to do next.
One thing that has to be understood
by any entrepreneur or product manager
is that MVP experiments
will primarily return quantitative data.
Quantitative data, if you're not familiar with the term,
is kind of the opposite of what we were doing
when we were interviewing customers
and doing customer development.
Quantitative data is going to be data
that has numbers, numbers that indicate behavior,
maybe percentages of users that did this,
how much time someone spent on your page,
total signups, et cetera, et cetera.
When we were interviewing customers
we were getting what's called qualitative information.
Qualitative information and qualitative data
cannot be expressed in numbers, it's verbal,
it's not a scale from one to 10,
it's a measurement of feeling strongly about something
or who is this user.
And here is a crucial lesson you have to learn.
If you wanna make the right call
you need to make sure you're collecting both types of data.
Numbers will tell you what happened
and it will give you unbiased records
of what your users did or did not do,
but you can and will not know why they did what they did
without also speaking to them.
The what without the why can be incredibly misleading.
Let's say in a hypothetical,
we created a landing page experiment
that targeted hardcore marathon runners
that displayed a brand new shoe
that was designed for running long distances.
When you put it out there into the world
and drove traffic to it,
you see that 14% of users signed up to be notified
of when it gets released.
In fact, some of them on a separate page
actually paid for pre-orders.
Both of those cases you decide those are great numbers
and you give the project a green light.
You build out the shoe,
you build out an advertising campaign
to market it for the first time.
Let's say that you advertise in a marathon running forum,
and of all the people that clicked your page
only 1% ended up buying the shoe.
What exactly happened?
Now, you might think this is an exaggerated case
but it actually happens all the time,
because you've never collected qualitative data
on those 14% of users that signed up
you never found out that the users that signed up
were actually marathon runners at all.
They were casual runners and they bought it
because, hey, they like the design of the shoe.
So, as a product manager,
if you want your MVP experiment to bear fruitful results
you can make sense of,
make sure you incorporate regular conversations
with your users that are involved in your test.
Incentivize them to talk on the phone,
install live chat boxes,
you know now how to get this done
'cause we had a section on customer development.
This is primarily a discovery process
and throughout your experiments
you're gonna find out things that will surprise you.
Maybe your feature ended up being popular,
but not at all by the people
you thought would originally like it,
or maybe your user behavior didn't change the ideal metric
but it did change an entirely different metric.
All of this is gold to you
because you're finding out the truth
about your competitors' needs
and your competitors' preferences.
At the end of this process, though, you need to make a call.
Do you make the feature and give it the green light?
Do you scrap the whole idea
and forget that you ever thought about it?
Or, do you think you should rerun the test
but on a slightly different hypothesis?
These are the decisions you have to make
as a product manager,
but now you know how to run MVP test
which are the primary way
you're gonna get the information you need
to guide you in making those decisions.
All right, guys, congratulations
on finishing the MVP section.
If you guys wanna get more on MVPs,
we have my MVP course that's attached to this.
There's a coupon and lecture for, I think,
go back, check that out.
The MVP course that I teach is a lot longer
and it's a lot more in-depth.
It's focused more on entrepreneurs
but you can still learn a lot
about things that can apply to basic product management.
Like always, guys, questions, concerns,
post in the Q&amp;A, otherwise, see in the next section.

--- Section 7: Review & Recap ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Introduction to Wireframing ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course and welcome
to the new section on conceptualizing your ideas.
If you wanna build a great product
you first have to conceptualize it and any great product
is a result of a long process of development and refinement.
No product can stand on its own
without a well thought out and well built foundation.
And with that in mind we're gonna learn
one of the crucial skills for conceptualizing your idea
and communicating it.
Wireframing.
Now, what is a wireframe?
Some of you guys have heard of this before
feel free to skip this lecture, but for those of you
who do not know what it is, a wireframe is
a visual guide for a website, web app,
or mobile app that basically lays out
a rough structure for where the content is gonna go.
When you're making a web app or a mobile app
or just a regular old website
what is the first thing you do
long before you have anything actually built
and anything to actually play with?
Well, the first thing you usually do is you wireframe it.
Now, why do we make wireframes?
Well, when you first come up with your product idea
or your feature idea,
you're in what we call the design phase.
In the design phase, everything's kind of up in the air.
Feature ideas are thrown around.
You don't know exactly what's gonna go in it.
It's very abstract, it's very amorphous.
Wireframing is usually the first step you will take
in corralling that information that's in everyone's head
and what's been communicated only verbally
up until this point,
onto something that is definite and precise.
Think of it as the first rough translation
of a product idea.
And specifically when you start wireframing
you're gonna start wireframing with what we call
a low fidelity wireframe.
Low fidelity in this case, just meaning not very exact,
not a lot of detail, not very precise.
So it's fidelity being accuracy, low, low accuracy.
These versions are very basic.
They're created really quickly and they're really just
meant to test broad concepts and define the overall vision
for what we're trying to build.
The idea here is that we're gonna paint with broad strokes
and this is gonna allow us to then go
and do some user research, collect some feedback internally,
as well as from potential users.
And then over time we can slowly define more and more
of the product or feature.
We can really start to figure out what it does,
how it does it, and what it looks like.
Generally, teams have a very iterative process
with wireframing, and as they gather more and more feedback,
they're gonna add more and more fidelity.
They're gonna add more detail to the actual mockup.
We'll go from things like broad sketches of a circle
that just says button, to circle that actually has shape
that says sign up, or whatever the button's actually
supposed to do, to a button that is actually designed.
You'll go from things like writing a scribble text
like Lorem Ipsum or just gibberish,
to writing out a rough outline of what the content
should say, to writing out the actual finished copywriting
that should go on the website.
You'll go through that process
and eventually you'll land at the top of the high fidelity
curve and your mockups at that point,
if you took a glance at them you might not know
that they were not functional.
They'll have graphic design, they'll have the layout
and the information pretty much decided.
Now, do product managers themselves wireframe?
Well, it actually just depends.
If you're on a smaller team like a startup,
you probably will be required to do some wireframing
and that's just because small teams are gonna wear
a lot more hats and it's kind of
an all hands on deck type situation.
If you can do it, they're gonna ask you to do it.
Now, as you move up organizations and they get larger
and larger and larger, your role's gonna become more defined
and it's gonna become more narrow.
In those types situations, you might not be asked
to wireframe, it kind of just depends on the company
but you will need familiarity with wireframing.
Typically what's gonna happen with a product manager
in a larger company is that you will be asked
to sit down with graphic designers
and together create wireframes and you will have
to contribute to it but you won't have to be an expert
or be super polished with UX skill.
Another common scenario is that you might yourself
have to sketch out an idea that you wanna propose
because you don't want to take up resources
from other people who can make it in a more fidelity way.
So if you wanna be effective as a product manager
or as an entrepreneur in web or mobile technology
you need to know how to communicate complex feature
and product ideas.
And wireframing is the way we do that.
You don't have to be a UX guru
you don't have to grow a goatee or anything
but you will be expected to know the basics
and maybe in a pinch, whip up some wireframes yourself.
So in the first half of the section, we're gonna focus
on getting you up to speed with wireframes.
Show you how with a very little time investment,
get in, get out, and learn to be dangerous.
And a worst case scenario, you now have a skill
that you can impress your coworkers with
and you don't have to bug people every time
you wanna draft something up.
All right, see you in the next lecture.

--- Wireframe, Mockup, Prototype ---

-: Hey guys. Welcome back to the course.
So last lecture, I introduced you
to the concept of wireframing.
Why we do it, what it is,
and how often are you going to use it
as a product manager, and under what circumstances.
Now that you're comfortable with wireframes,
we can actually introduce more concepts now
that are related to wireframes.
wireframes are kind of the entry point
if you're wanting to conceptualize your product idea
or communicate it.
It's the most ubiquitous way of communicating.
But wireframes can have more detail,
they can have more interaction,
and they can do all sorts of different things.
At which point we actually call them something else?
And that's the title of this lecture,
which is wireframe, mockup and prototype.
As a product manager
you need to understand what makes them different,
what tools you'll use for each one,
and in general, how do they relate to each other?
And now let's first talk about wireframes,
and I'm gonna explain this on a scale of fidelity.
Remember the concept of fidelity.
Fidelity meaning accuracy.
Wireframes are at the far left
and they're the first thing we start with,
because they're the simplest,
they're also called skeletons
because they're very, very simple.
The way I like to think of wireframes
is that they're like the blueprint of your design.
You're almost always gonna make these first,
and the reason why you do it
is because you wanna tackle some basic questions
around structure, layout, and organization
before your team iterates on visual details.
Wireframes are on the low fidelity side,
we are gonna worry about technical and visual detail later,
there's a time and place for it, and it is not now.
Visuals and specifications and technical details
are very important,
but you wanna make sure that you have
the structure and the layout hammered down first.
Some of the tools we'll use in wireframing
might be Balsamic,
and we're gonna use Balsamic in this course.
Balsamic is incredibly popular for low fidelity wireframes,
because it allows you to make them very quickly
in a mock kind of sketch fashion that looks cool,
it's fun to play with,
and people generally respond positively to it.
Another popular tool used for wireframing is Axure.
If I can remember how to draw the logo.
Sometimes I get confused with the Windows Azure,
this is Axure with an X.
Axure is a big application.
Oftentimes you have it at the enterprise level
because it allows teams to collaborate,
and it has a lot of features baked into it.
It's by no means a lightweight solution.
Another one is OmniGraffle
That one is still used,
I'm not entirely sure why, it's kind of clunky,
but it has some interesting features.
Just usually skip that one.
HotGloo is another example of a popular wireframing tool.
I mentioned this one
because this one is actually browser-based only.
You'll notice this with a lot of tools
for conceptualizing your product.
A lot of them are browser-based, why?
Well, it makes it more convenient
for you to store your information with them
and not on your hard drive where something can go wrong,
and also you can then access that information
anywhere you are.
It's also much easier to share that way,
share your wireframes with your teammates
without having to send them an email attachment,
which are notorious for just sucking.
And last one I'm gonna mention is POP,
which we're actually gonna use in this course.
It's really, really cool.
Check out that lecture.
POP allows you to take sketches that you've made
and turn them into digital copies,
and then you can manipulate them.
All right, now, what generally happens after
we have wireframes.
Well, that's the concept of a mockup.
Now, mockups can confuse all the time
with wireframes, with prototypes.
A lot of people don't even know
what a mockup necessarily is.
Mockups are actually static displays
of what the final product should visually look like.
The reason why we use mockups
is because it gives you the opportunity to make decisions
about things like colors, typography, and in general style.
To give you visual representation
I'll draw the same version of the wireframe,
but now I'm gonna add in color,
and I'm gonna add in some people
that we can just imagine or photos.
I'm able to fill in the buttons and what they look like.
And we already know the structure,
now I'm just filling in kind of the pixel specific details.
Now, if you ever have trouble
remembering what tools to use for mockups,
well, remember who generally does a mockup.
Generally, the mockups are gonna be done by the designers.
Designers are the ones that are in charge of visual detail,
and so this portion of the process makes sense for them
to be the ones kind of at the helm.
And what a designers use?
Typically, they're gonna use Photoshop.
Photoshop is incredibly powerful,
kind of clunky when it comes to making mockups quickly,
but the vast majority of designers still use that.
Another option is Sketch.
Something that's been gaining a lot of popularity,
kind of as a competitor to Photoshop,
allows you to draw things faster.
That's kind of their focus.
It's the final cut pro to the Adobe Premier,
if you guys are in video, and that means anything to you.
Also not to be left out,
a lot of designers will do their mockups in Illustrator.
That is a legitimate way of doing it,
kind of clunky because Illustrator forces you
to make your designs in vector,
which basically means
that you're gonna be drawing your designs
and the designs are only going to be held in space
relative to the other points of the design.
I know that's kind of confusing what Vector means,
but think of it like this.
Photoshop is pixel based, Illustrator is vector.
Photoshop, when you draw something, you draw something,
and when you stretch an image it stretches out
and sometimes it gets blurry.
But with Illustrator, because it's vector,
there are no hard to find dots in the image,
it redefines the image as you stretch it,
because the image is only concerned with the relationship
between where this point is and where that point is.
That was totally extra, guys.
I'll put some stuff in the resources
if you wanna read more about that.
Another tool you can use and back around to is Axure, again.
And another one called UXPin.
Now, I added these ones because they allow you to wireframe,
at least Axure does,
but Axure also has an image library and templates
that you can easily drag and drop
into your wireframe to convert them into mockups.
All right, and then once you have the design hammered out,
what do you usually do then afterwards?
Well, now that you know the visual design looks like this,
the structure looks like this,
the layout is gonna be exactly the way you have it on paper,
now you add interaction.
Now, if wireframes handle structure,
and markups handle visuals,
what do prototypes handle?
They handle usability.
Prototyping is actually the first phase
where you can play with what you've created,
even if it's in a very limited regard.
Prototypes allow you to explore the user interface
that you've put together,
start looking for potential problems in the user flow,
and get a decent idea of what you think is gonna work best.
Now, for a product manager, prototypes are essential
if you wanna do things like usability research.
It's one thing to show a potential customer,
or someone you're doing a user test
with a mockup or a wireframe,
but it's an entirely different thing
if you show them a prototype,
a prototype can show you what they think of it
and how they interact with it,
with the other two
you just only get their first impressions.
The best part of prototypes is it allows teams
to do usability research.
If you're an entrepreneur, prototypes are pretty cool
because a lot of times that's all you need
to recruit people and raise money.
But keep in mind guys, prototypes,
and when I say prototype in the web and mobile world,
I mean something that I can interact with,
but that interaction is gonna be very limited,
it's basically going to be hot spots
where I press something and it takes me to a new page
or maybe, maybe, I can do some basic gestures
if it's a mobile prototype.
Now, a very popular tool for making prototypes,
believe it or not, it's Keynote.
If you use Keynote,
which is the Mac comparable to PowerPoint,
and you can use templates and libraries like Keynotopia.
What you can do is you can make
a lot of images on the slides
and then connect the slides to other slides,
so if I click a button on the Keynote page
it links to another Keynote page.
And with Keynote you can load that onto a mobile phone
or onto a web browser.
Pretty crafty I might add,
but keep in mind that you're gonna be very limited
by how much interaction you can add with Keynote.
Another one is a POP.
Now look at POP, how it was a wireframe tool,
and it's a prototyping tool.
Well, because it allows us to add interactions
to our wireframes.
It skips the visual step,
so we're just working with skeletons, literal wireframes,
and moving them around and adding basic interactions.
Other ones to be aware of again, our Axure.
Axure is a massive product,
it handles all three of these stages.
No wonder it's decently popular.
Proto.io is one that's quite popular.
It's worth mentioning
because it focuses solely on mobile apps.
If you're doing mobile apps, look into Proto.io.
And the last one is Envision.
And Envision is another massive product, very popular,
that allows you to create multiple layers of interactions
into a page that you can import mockups into.
Envision gets my vote for prototyping
because it's probably the best I've used.
All right, you now know what's a wireframe,
what's a mockup and what's a prototype.
You know that they're related to each other,
and that wireframes are the least accurate,
the lowest fidelity,
mockups are in the middle,
and prototypes have the most fidelity,
because they have interaction
and they look exactly what the finished product
is probably gonna be.
Wireframes are structure, mockups are for visuals,
and prototypes are for usability and interactions.
Keep this in mind 'cause I just saved you
a whole lot of hurt for your first meeting
when you walk in and you call a wireframe a mockup,
and someone just slaps you.
All right, guys, in the next section,
we're actually gonna get started with sketching,
so we're gonna jump right into it.
I'm gonna talk to you about what sketching is,
how does it relate to wireframes,
it is a wireframe,
and how you can do it now easily in five minutes.
All right, see you then.

--- Let's Jump into Sketching ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So in the last lecture we learned what wire framing is
and hopefully you remember what that is.
If you don't remember, well,
they're visual mock-ups of a potential website,
mobile app, or even just a feature.
And they're these things that we sketch out
and they look like wires
and we do them because it helps us communicate the
vision of the product.
It helps us make sure that everyone's on the same page,
and it allows us to get feedback internally
and from potential users.
But how do you start wire framing?
Let's say you wanted to make a wire frame.
How would you actually start? Do you need
thousands of dollars of software? No.
Do you need thousands of dollars of equipment?
No, actually, you don't.
The easiest way to start wire framing is available
to literally anyone, it's a lot more simple than you think.
It's literally just pen and paper. That's what we do.
I'm not actually joking when product managers,
when UX specialist graphic designers,
project managers, you name it.
When they wanna start, and actually draft out
their first wire frame, they reach for
a pencil, or pen, and paper.
Google does this, they sketch.
Microsoft, they do it as well, they sketch.
Facebook does the same thing. Pretty much
everyone starts by drawing it out.
Now, why is that? Well, because
started wire framing,
the idea here is we wanna do it very quickly.
Supposed to be a rapid task. We don't want it to take
a lotta time, we don't want people to
think it's real, or think that it's well defined,
or something that we've been working on
for a long period of time. We also
really don't wanna get attached to it,
so when you write it out on paper,
you're more likely to be able to let it go
and throw it away, if you need to pivot
or try something else.
At this stage of the game, your idea is the loosest,
it's the least defined, and we wanna stay flexible,
so we use something that's very temporary.
So, you guys at home, grab a pen or pencil,
and piece of paper, and let's draw some wire frames.
Can't draw? Well, guess what, neither can I.
I've never been able to draw anything
more complicated than a stick figure. True story.
So, we're standing here, looking at a blank sheet of paper.
We know what wire frames look like, right?
We also know what websites look like,
but that doesn't stop us from getting this kinda
deer in the headlights effect. The possibilities
are almost too infinite, what do I even start with?
Don't worry, I'm gonna walk you through
a bulletproof way of getting out of that first
kind of analysis paralysis, and it's really quite easy.
So ask yourself the question, what is something that,
no matter what you draw, you're gonna have to
actually put down on the paper?
If you guessed browser, you are correct.
So, actually, let's just draw out a browser,
'cause that'll help us get something on the paper,
and all of a sudden the paper's went from this big,
to a very smaller section, much more manageable.
So, draw out your browser, you guys can pick
whatever browser you want. I'm gonna pick Chrome,
and I'm gonna put the three little colored dots
in the top left corner, put some tabs, and put,
you know, a search box and pretty much
everything else you see on Chrome.
Doesn't it feel, all of a sudden, kind of less overwhelming?
I've been doing this for years and for some reason,
it always feels better after I draw the browser.
So, again, now what do we do? We have a browser,
but we have to put stuff inside the browser.
Well, what's another thing that you
probably will have to draw out regardless?
Well, I'll give you a hint. Most websites are gonna have
a logo of some sort, and they're probably gonna have
a navigation bar. So, draw those out,
just put the logo in the top left corner,
or top right corner,
and draw a little navigation bar.
And the navigation bar, you can say, like,
one of them's home, and then just leave
empty spaces for other things.
Now, I know this is a little traditional,
a lot of websites now don't have navigation bars,
or they're floating text, but for the most part,
we all have some form of this.
Alright, so it's starting to look like something.
Now, at this point, you just need to close your eyes,
and try to envision what you imagine it looking like.
Open your eyes, look back at the wire frame,
and you probably still don't have any idea,
so we're gonna move on to the next thing.
Alright, the next thing you need to do,
and this is probably something you've answered
in your head, but you haven't yet written it out
or consciously done this, is write out the question,
and answer the question, what is the point of this page?
Why are users on this page? What is their goal
and what do you think their outcome of being here is?
Try not to overthink this. Write it out in
the simplest way you can.
It's probably gonna be something along the lines of,
it's gonna be to let users do
something, something, something.
Alright, so that was easy,
so let's move on to the next exercise.
Write out users should be able to do,
and answer that question to yourself.
Once you've figured this part out,
you're pretty much halfway there.
So, try to think about what are all the things
that your user should be able to do on this page.
It's different than the primary function of the page,
which is the main point of why they're there,
but there're also secondary things
they should be able to do.
Let's call these functions and write them out.
Don't worry if you miss something,
you're always gonna miss something,
and later it'll come to you. These are sketches,
they're not supposed to be taken that seriously.
Alright, so let's say that we're building a page that
shows users a lot of different videos that they can watch.
So, let's answer the question, what's the actual
point of that. Well, the point of that would be to let
users see a thumbnail of all of the available videos,
such that they can choose which video they wanna watch.
So, I would just draw that out.
I'm just gonna draw some boxes, that says video,
I'm gonna put video, video, video on it.
And that satisfies the first question.
I now have established visually
what the point of the page is.
Then move on to the next one, function one.
What was the first function, well,
let's just take a guess. I would guess that
maybe users need to like certain videos.
And some way of communicating that,
you know, they like it, so
let's draw little hearts onto the bottoms of the thumbnails.
Alright, good, so let's check off that function.
Now let's do function number two.
Let's say users probably should be able search.
They should probably be able to search that list,
it shouldn't just be a random list
that they don't get to curate or play with,
so let's put a search box. It's really simple,
it's just an oval with a little symbol in the middle.
Great, we satisfied function number two.
Function number three,
let's say that we need to add pagination, as in
there can be a lotta search results, so
we probably assume users might look at
page two and page three and page four
or decide how many of the thumbnails to display in a page.
So, I'll put up at the top right,
same way that you see it on all websites,
show, you know, ten results,
twenty results, or thirty results, et cetera.
Now, if you get stuck at any point in this,
you're thinking, my familiarity with the web or mobile
is just not good enough to do this, my suggestion is to
always just hop online and start
playing around with some major websites.
Go to the websites that you go to all the time,
play around for a long enough time
and you'll probably run into a function
or a page that has similarities.
That'll get the creative juices going and a lot of times
you can just outright copy them.
If that doesn't seem to work for you,
try to think really hard of a website that you know of
that has the same solution or problem
that you're trying to solve, and if you can think of that
then maybe you can find a website that might have
that function, and worse case scenario,
I always just go to my favorite website Dribbble,
D R I, three Bs, L E dot com, and it's just a website
where graphic designers put up really
good designs of web layouts,
buttons,
forums,
everything.
And it just kinda helps you get in a creative mood,
reminds you of what good webpages
or simple webpages should look like.
So now that you know the process,
I need to instill one last thing in your head,
this is the most important thing you need to know,
as a product manager doing wire frames.
And that is,
it's function, not form,
okay?
You are not the UX person, you're not the designer,
even as an entrepreneur, no one is gonna judge you
because the user flow of your website is a little off,
or you sketched out something that doesn't have a comparable
and it might look weird,
that's not the point, the point is to get
the function on the page, the form is something that
someone else will figure out later.
Alright guys, in the next lecture,
I'm gonna practice, in front of you, making more sketches.
If you don't want that, skip on to the next lecture,
where we'll talk about pop.
Alright, see you then.

--- Sketching Out a Mobile App ---

-: Hey, guys, welcome back to the course.
Last lecture we got introduced to sketching.
Sketching is just a simpler form of wire framing.
It's actually the first form you will use
in the vast majority of organizations and teams out there.
First, start by taking pen to paper.
So we covered a pretty good way
of going about making your first sketches,
but in this lecture, let's get some practice.
So this time, I'm gonna sketch out some wire frames,
and if you guys wanna follow along,
continue the rest of the lecture.
If you think you got it,
skip to the next so I don't hear you complain.
All right, this time, let's not do a website or web app.
Let's do a mobile application.
So, let's draw out an iPhone.
All right, so what kind of app
do you think we should try to make?
I think what I'm gonna try to do is
let's make a mobile application
for ordering groceries, okay?
Grocery delivery, that's gonna be the topic of the app.
The idea, kind of like a web van,
where you can get on your phone
and order groceries from nearby stores
to where you live.
All right, now that we have our iPhone template,
what should we start with?
Well, I'd say an easy one to start with is a navigation bar.
I'm assuming that we're gonna need a navigation bar,
so I can put some space down at the bottom
where I can click some buttons.
Later on, we'll fill that out.
Another thing that we could put instead,
we could actually instead make a login screen.
Pretty much any app that's not a demo,
or any app that is complete
and something you take seriously, has a login screen,
and login screens are also called splash pages.
So let's make that splash page and that login page,
and I like doing this sometimes first,
because it gets the juices flowing.
All right, so let's draw out the login screen.
This is a pretty standard template I'm gonna draw out.
If you guys wanna use something else,
again, just go out and find your favorite app.
It literally takes four seconds.
You just hit the app icon,
and see what the first thing you see is.
What's the login screen?
I'm gonna put the name in the middle,
and the logo up the top left like we always do.
And then, how do you think they should be able to log in?
Well, I think it would make sense to log in
with Facebook login and email.
Cool, now we have a finished screen.
Now we should ask the question,
should we link these two screens in any way,
or at least draw some form of relationship between the two?
Yeah, probably.
So, I'm just gonna draw an arrow
from the login screen to the main screen,
and that just shows that the login screen is first,
and it's a linear process going from left to right.
This is actually how most people
when they're sketching will do it.
They'll just use arrows,
and then often right next to the arrows,
what button they're clicking,
or a description of the interaction, or maybe an animation.
We don't need to do that.
And also, guys, keep in mind this is supposed to be rapid.
That's why we do sketching.
No one's gonna gonna judge you based
off of your ability to draw,
or your ability to make something that looks crisp
and clean and makes sense immediately.
Remember, function, not form.
All right, great, now we have them linked,
and for our purposes of showing other people,
that's perfect, 'cause I can just show them,
and it makes a lot more sense to them
pretty much immediately.
Okay, what should we do on the first page?
Again, we're gonna have to answer those questions
that we asked ourselves as part
of the exercise in the last lecture.
Remember the first question?
It is, what is the point of this screen?
Well, the point of the main screen, I would assume,
is to let people actually find a grocery store,
and start picking items.
I think that speed is probably important,
so in the first screen,
they should be able to do both those things.
All right, so let's draw it out.
Let's make it so that we can select a store that's near us,
'cause we obviously don't wanna order
from the same store over and over again.
That's part of the appeal of the app.
Then we'll put a little box
where we can display the store names,
just so you know which one you are actually operating,
and then let's just draw in some boxes
to show where the favorite items and most common items
for that store would display.
All right, awesome.
So, we actually have a decent wire frame right there,
but let's put some more detail into it.
Now, let's answer the second question.
What should users be able to do?
Well, I think that users should be able
to visually see the grocery items,
just so they can really quickly see what's available,
and that's easier for them.
So, let's draw in some actual apples and bananas and grapes
and that little circular oranges.
You got it in orange.
I think users should also be able to see
what the price of the items are,
and I don't need to put a range or anything,
so I'm just gonna put dollar sign, dollar sign,
because I think that the price,
let's just put it right underneath the image.
I also think that since grocery stores have so many items,
and I'm on this screen,
it wouldn't make sense to just show me the popular items,
regardless of whether or not the user asks for it,
so let's put a search box.
So, I'll just draw out a little search box.
Cool, check, check, and check.
The point is to be able to find a grocery store,
and start the process of ordering items.
Other things they should be able to do,
they should be able to search for their groceries,
see them, and know what they cost.
Okay, so now let's say if I clicked on
one of the grocery items, what do you think would happen?
Well, it'd probably go to a page
where gives more information, why?
Because a user needs more information about an apple
or a pear or whatever they're buying in order to buy it.
They're not all commodities.
We need to give more information.
All right, so let's make a new screen,
and we can connect these
just like we connected the other ones.
So this one, we'll just call this the detail page.
And then the detail page,
we'll just draw a big image of whatever it is.
We'll just draw on apple,
'cause I'm great at drawing apples,
and now the user gets a big picture of what it is.
And so, that saves us the time of answering the question of,
what's the point of this screen?
Well, the point of this screen
is to display the items so they can see it,
and give them information so that they can purchase it.
What should they also be able to do?
Well, they should probably also be able to read about it,
so put some squiggly lines for text.
They should probably also be able to buy it,
so I'll put a buy button,
and I'm gonna guess that you should probably be able
to choose how many of them they're gonna buy,
so I'll put a little number box
where they can manipulate that.
And there you go, now you have it.
That is a pretty decent wire frame right there.
There's an enormous amount of screens
I could make after that, but I would bore you guys to tears.
Notice how though we went about it in a very systematic way,
very logical about it.
Always ask yourselves the questions
that we went over in the last lecture,
that'll get you out of a rut.
I always suggest starting
with really easy intermediary screens,
or elements that are always on the page
to get the juices flowing, to get you comfortable.
All right guys, in the next lecture I have a treat for you,
'cause we're gonna use a system called POP,
which is a mobile application that allow us
to take sketches and turn them into prototypes.
Interesting, right?
All right, see you in the next lecture.

--- OPTIONAL: Using POP features in Marvel ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Welcome to this bonus slash optional lecture where
I'm gonna talk about how you can take your sketches,
add interaction to them, get them on your phone,
and take them to the next level using a system called Pop.
As always, if you're not interested
you're too busy for this stuff.
This is optional.
Skip the lecture.
I will see you later.
Alright, so in the last two lectures
we got into sketching, showed you how to do it,
how to think through it, and then we practiced
by creating a wireframe set called InstaFood.
Now, the idea behind sketches are that they're rapid,
they're very easy to do pen and paper.
That's it.
And you can do them really, really quickly.
So if you have an idea, you wanna communicate it
you can sketch it out and then show it
to someone that instantly bring your communication
and your conversation to the next level.
It's also incredible useful for things like validation
or user testing, because on the fly, if you want to ask
about something or get someone's feedback on it
you can just whip it up and show it to them.
But one of the limits of being able to do that quickly is
that you have to hold the piece of paper
and explain to them, oh, this button goes over here
and trust me, it's gonna have like a thing that does this.
And it, it makes sense.
It's especially troublesome when you're trying to
convince someone of mobile apps
because you're holding a piece of paper and you know
if you draw an iPhone
like the way I draw an iPhone, people think you're crazy.
Alright, so enter Pop,
one of my favorite apps for sketching and collaborating.
Alright?
So you can check it out online if you want to.
It's popapp.in.
I don't know what the .in suffix is,
but they'll talk you through it, show you how it works.
It's free to use, and you only pay if you start using it
for tons and tons of projects, at which point you
should probably pay anyway.
It works for iOS, Android, and Windows phone.
So it pretty much covers everybody.
Sorry if you have a Blackberry, but let's be honest
if you have a Blackberry, you have bigger problems.
Now, the idea behind Pop is that we're gonna use our phones
to take a photo of our sketches,
then it's gonna import it into the Pop system,
and we can add basic user flow and interactions.
One thing that does make this easier for you guys though
is to go to the Pop.in/sketchpad
and you can download these sketchpads they have
that are really clean, really two spec,
and for all the major phones,
it'll make this process a lot easier.
At least look a lot better.
All right, you ready?
Grab a piece of paper, draw out your wireframes
and your sketches.
Grab your phone, and let's use some Pop.
So you'll open Pop, and then it's pretty simple.
You just want to create a project,
and I'll just talk you through this as we go.
We'll name it.
Remember ours was InstaFood.
Okay?
Now what it wants me to do is
say what device that my designs are for.
If I wanna do landscape or portrait.
I wanna do portrait with an iPhone five.
Actually drew an iPhone five, at least that's what was
in my head when I was using it.
Yes, this is an iPhone five, and it is yellow.
Create your project and then just hit the plus button here.
'Cause hitting the plus button will ask us to add screens.
So the way we do this is we take photos of them.
If you've taken photos before,
you can throw them into Dropbox or your creative cloud
or it's already stored on your phone
or you can just take them right now.
Alright, so then all I have to do is take the photo
of the app that we just drew before,
actually drew out a couple more screens so
that you guys can see the interaction a little bit better.
And then what you want to do is just place it
on the image and line up the boxes and take the photo.
Alright?
And then all you have to do is just keep taking photos.
You don't have to hit next
and save and move on or anything like that.
And so we can just keep moving on.
Then the third screen that we drew right there.
Alright, cool.
Now I have a couple other screens that I'm gonna add.
I'm gonna call in some extra light
because we're in the learning den, also known as a cave.
And let's add some more screens.
I made a screen for what happens when you hit email log in.
Obviously, it didn't just automatically send you
to the storefront.
Facebook log in would do that though.
So we need to take a photo of that.
And then I made another screen for checking out.
So after you hit buy, it should add it
to a screen so you can see your subtotal and whatever,
whatever made a very basic screen for that there.
Okay, when you're done, hit next
you can view what you've done.
Great, looks great, looks great.
You have the option to crop
if you shot it off a little bit wrong,
like see how it's misaligned
so I can put it right back on where it should be.
And I could also just, you know
I could cut it so it's like this.
If I wanted to be shorter or taller or whatever, done.
Okay, I can add brightness too as well, if you guys are also
in a cave and you might wanna add some brightness.
Okay, now I see my five screens.
Now I just need to add in relationships between the screens.
We established this before, right?
You have a log in screen and you click Facebook log in,
takes you to the storefront.
If you click on one of the items you wanna buy
takes you to the detail page, and then if you click buy
it's just gonna take you to the shopping cart.
So I'm gonna reflect that in the app.
I'm gonna go do the first one and just click it.
And all you wanna do is click on the button
or the area that you want to be tappable.
So I'll just click on the Facebook log in
and then I'll draw this little box
so it has a wider area that I can touch with my finger.
Great, now I link it to link it to the store front.
Great, I'll add one more.
This email log in will go to the email log in screen I made.
There we go.
I realize now that I didn't put a log in button
for the log in button, so we'll make that a dead end
but we'll move on to the next screen.
So this one, I would label this the main screen up here just
by tapping the title.
I could call it the main screen, done,
and then I can add in the buttons
that we know should work.
So I'll just do the apple for our sake,
link to the detail page.
Great, moving over the detail page, see how fast this is.
It's really, really simple.
Double tap the buy button, make it a little bit larger.
That's gonna link to the cart page.
Great, okay.
Now I have a project that's set up.
It's it's ready to go.
Now what I can do is when I'm talking to someone, say, hey
I have this idea for InstaFood,
or at least this is the way I envision
a grocery delivery app.
Maybe I work at a startup that is making something
like that, like Instacart.
And then what I would do is I'd show this to them
but not like this.
I'd show it to 'em by hitting play.
And now play basically makes a fake version of our app.
Now, the sketches look like something on your phone.
So if I wanted to log in, I would hit log in
in. Oh, and it takes me to the storefront
and I would be talking them through it, right?
I'd explain what the top button does
and I'd explain what these images are.
Not everyone's gonna be doing this
with a chisel tip sharpie
so there's gonna be a lot more detail to this.
I'd do it with those sharpies
because I like to, they're fun.
I'll click on the apple, explain to them how that works.
Oh, I click buy and buy, and I go to the cart page.
Great, that is the gist of Pop.
What you can also do is you can add in comments.
So what you can do is you can share it with people
and then if you want to add in commenting
you just double tap in one area, leave a comment
this is great, and then someone can read that.
And then when I want to share it
I just go back up here, hit share,
and I can send out a link.
So I will text it to myself
and we can see it on our browser.
There you go.
It works the same.
I can read an introduction that describes what it is
or I can just play right through it.
It works these same exact way.
Check it out.
Cool, then I give descriptions, yada, yada, yada.
Anyway, so that's one way you can take your sketches
to the next level.
Awesome, awesome tool for rapidly on the go
taking two dimensional sketches
and then putting 'em on your phone
and putting them in a way that you can explain them,
share them, collaborate on them,
and instantly connect in a better more meaningful way
with whoever you're trying to explain this to.
Alright, hope you enjoyed that one.
We have plenty other tools in this course.
At the end of this course
you'll be a master of so many different things.
I'm kind of envious,
even though I guess I'm teaching the course
so it doesn't really make sense.
Whatever, don't think about it.
See you next lecture.

--- Intro to Balsamiq ---

-: Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course.
So in the last lectures, we learned how to sketch.
We learned how to think our way through basic wireframes
and we even learned how to use Pop
so that we can add some basic interaction
to the sketches we had before.
Now it's time to upgrade and add a little bit of fidelity.
Tiny bit of fidelity.
We're not gonna make mock-ups yet.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna learn
how to use Balsamiq.
I think as a prospective product manager
it really helps to have one
of the wire framing tools under your belt.
So I picked the tool that is probably the most popular
for low fidelity wireframes
and also happens to be probably the fastest as well.
That's the reason why I like it.
At the end of this lecture
you'll know how to get into Balsamiq and be dangerous,
make pretty much whatever you want.
It's a very simple application.
It's not gonna take us a ton
of time to get up and running in it.
If you're the type that does not like tutorials
of softwares and someone showing you
what you should care about and think about first,
skip the lecture.
See you in the next lecture.
For the rest of you guys, let's jump in.
Alright, so this is what Balsamiq's website looks like.
They offer their service in two different ways.
One is a web version and one is a desktop version.
Now, there's pros and cons to both.
The web version is cheaper
and the desktop version is more expensive
but the web version is a subscription
where as a desktop app is one payment, one time.
For these guys out there that don't know
if you wanna buy this stuff, don't worry
they have a free trial.
You can try either one you want.
If you don't wanna save something on your computer
go for the web app.
If you're fine saving stuff on your computer
I prefer using the desktop app.
It's faster, it's easier to use in my opinion
and you don't have to wait
for your browser to constantly update.
Alright?
So take your pick, download whichever one you want to do.
I'll see you as soon as you get into it.
We fast forward to the future.
Okay, alright
so this is what the desktop application looks like.
It's very similar to the web application.
In fact, I'm not even sure there's anything really
that much different about it.
Now, Balsamiq is very, very simple.
There is just this screen.
Not only is this application fast, it is very, very simple.
Another one of the good things about it
people often fault Balsamiq for being simple
but I challenge you to find something you can't wireframe
with Balsamiq, they are simple, but they've really
thought out pretty much everything in their app.
Alright, so the way that this works is pretty much
like any editing tool that uses a canvas
and then has tools like Photoshop, like a sketch.
If you're not familiar with those, don't worry.
Right here is the canvas, okay?
This is where we're gonna take elements and add it
to the canvas, manipulate them, and create our wireframe.
Now, this canvas here is not defined
as in there are no boundaries to it.
I can scroll up and down and just go on forever.
There's really no limit
to where I can place things in this area.
Alright, so at the top
you can see all of the elements that you can use.
They have them sectioned off into little groups here
which is the way that you find them.
There is no search for some reason.
I believe they removed it from a previous version
so you're gonna have to get used to these categories.
Alright, so they have categories
for pretty much everything you would want.
Now, if you wanna add something to the canvas
you can drag and drop or just double click.
If you wanna do add an iPhone
we go over to the iOS section
which holds a bunch of elements for mobile applications
and I can just double click an iPhone.
All right, so now that it's in the canvas, it's really easy.
I have boundary boxes up here
if I wanna shrink it or grow it in any way.
It'll tell me how many pixels it is
if you want to get exact.
Over here, what we have is called the inspector
and the inspector allows us to add modifications
to our elements.
I can manually pick the size of it or the positioning.
Notice how as I move this, the position changes.
It's an absolute position.
I can change it between things like the iPhone four,
iPhone five, I can make it landscape versus portrait.
I can even add in some really helpful stuff like top bars
and lower bars, which are really helpful because remember
the first thing we do with iOS
at least we always add a navigation bar
so that saves us time.
Also gives you the option to change the layering
of your canvas and your wireframing
and let me show you what that means.
Let's say I wanted to add this iOS keyboard onto my iPhone.
Let's make it line up.
Great, now, you have to keep in mind is
that these two elements are quite literally stacked
on top of each other.
It's like paper.
That's the easiest way of thinking about it.
Right now, the keyboard is
on top because I created it second, but
if I wanted the keyboard to be behind the iPhone
for whatever reason, I would just send it backward, right?
So when I hit send it backward
it goes back one layer behind whatever's directly behind it
or I can send it to the bottom
or I can send it to the front with these buttons.
Alright, pretty simple, right?
So let's start throwing some more elements on the page.
We have the option of adding things like forms.
These are incredibly helpful
if you ever need to create a form, incredibly tedious
but with Balsamiq, you can do it pretty easily.
Buttons are over here.
Very easy to change the text just by double clicking them
so you can change it to buy now or whatever it is.
You can change the color.
You can add icons
and I'll talk about icons in just a second.
You can create a form then by just throwing down a bunch
of stuff that you would normally see into, in a form.
And notice this one thing as I move elements on the canvas
it will bring up guidelines, little grids
and this is incredibly helpful for lining things.
Specifically, if I was making a form
I would want everything to line up on the left, right?
Well, I can do that really easily
without having to zoom in by clicking the second element
and then just lining it up right there with the left end.
I can also line it up with the middle of the element.
It's tricky, but there it goes.
If I want to do center alignment or with the middle
of the design, which actually happens to be right there
cause it's the middle of the canvas.
Alright, let's see what else we can add in it.
Let's throw in some text right there.
We'll call it a form.
Let's see what else we can add in.
Let's say we want to grab some numbers,
maybe turn something on and off right there,
line 'em up, and there you go.
You have the most basic form ever made.
Now I also have the option of adding icons.
Now, I said I'd get back to these.
What an icon is
it's just gonna be a blank space whenever you add it
but if you double click this magic thing it gives you
an enormous option of icons you can choose from.
Now, don't worry
it's not gonna send these icons into a box.
It's gonna take the place of the box.
We have hundreds and hundreds of icons here.
You can pick the size that you want
and it'll give you a preview.
You can also search
over here for whatever specifically you wanted.
If I want to get really specific,
I'm looking for a rupee.
There we go.
That's actually the symbol.
Great, now I can use that
for whatever I was planning to use it for.
Similarly, I can add icons to things like buttons
so in the button right here, over here, I can add an icon.
Okay, so if I wanted to add rupee to that, there we go.
Now we added a rupee
and I can also change the size to make it fit
so it doesn't stick out so much, and there you go.
Alright, so that is the basics of Balsamiq.
There's not that much left to go over.
You can add certain things like states to buttons.
See this button.
When I say a state, a state could be clicked or unclicked
for instance, or grayed out, I could put the state.
It could be selected and focused or disabled, say selected.
See how it changes the color.
That's helpful.
If I'm putting wireframes in a row, showing a sequence,
or if I wanna to get really specific saying when
this button is depressed,
then you see these other elements on the screen.
Over here in the common section
you'll see all the common things that you would see.
Image boxes are right here.
Notice how before in wireframes
typically you won't have the image or sketch out the image.
You'll put a box and write image, but if you wanted to
you could put something in this.
I like doing it like this, clicking it and hitting enter
and then putting image in the middle
so you can see that, hey, this is an image.
You can also just double tap on it
if you wanted to add an image in that container
it'll insert an image into the container and constrict it
and then you can expand it to your heart's content.
If you ever want to duplicate something
it's relatively easy.
I just use copy and paste.
You can do it up here, edit copy, and then you know
control V, and you can copy it right there
and then you can use grids for alignment, yada, yada, yada.
The last two things I wanna show you are one
annotations and two,
then how do we export?
Now, annotations in Balsamiq are controlled
in kind of a goofy way.
We just use it through stickies.
Now, go over to the markup right here.
If I wanted to add something onto the page
like a comment for someone else reading this right here
I could put a sticky and then put a description saying
you know, this is the screen that does this
or some comment that I want other people to notice
and then I can use arrows right here.
If I want to change the arrows I have in the inspector ways
of changing it, changing the size, the length
which way it points, in which direction
in case I wanted to say point the sticky in that direction.
Sorry to go like this, and there you go.
When you want to save your creations
you have to export them
and you'll have to export them either as an image or a pdf
or you can share it and use a share link online.
That's great if you wanna share it with other people.
Otherwise, you'll have to export it and send it to them.
If you wanna create multiple mock-ups, by the way
you just hit, click this
and then you can create another mock-up
and if you click here
it'll show you all the mock-ups you have made.
When you then export, it'll put all of them together
into one long PDF and it, if you have a lot of 'em
it'll create a table of contents at the top.
Alright, guys, that is for the most part
all you need to know to get into Balsamiq and get dangerous.
There's a lot of other things obviously I didn't cover
but you'll figure them out pretty quickly.
That is 90% of it.
Alright, guys.
In the next lecture
we're gonna practice this just a little bit.
If you don't feel like you need practice
then just skip on to the next lecture.
Won't hurt my feelings.
For the rest of you guys, I'll see you in the next lecture.

--- Building YouTube in Balsamiq ---

-: Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So, in this lecture,
we're gonna get some practice with Balsamiq.
We're going to create a website, from scratch,
using all the tools we covered in the previous lecture.
Now, for those of you guys out there,
that don't want to follow along,
or don't feel like you need practice, skip the lecture.
And I'll see you in the next lecture.
For the rest of you guys, let's get started.
All right, you remember what I said in the last lecture?
Balsamiq, is incredibly simple and incredibly fast.
So simple, and so fast,
that in the 10 minutes we spent in the last lecture,
whatever it was, learning how to use this system,
that was all we need to create an in-depth website.
And, to prove my point, let's go ahead and make a website.
To prove my point, I can, let's go ahead and make a website.
I'm gonna make a copy of YouTube.
YouTube, when I speak to about YouTube,
I'm not talking about the homepage.
I'm talking about what the screen looks like,
When you're actually viewing a sub page.
I would go to All, go to the browser window.
Here's on the browser window.
I can type in YouTube.
And there we go, see?
It shows it up in YouTube.
Let's expand the size.
There we go, okay.
Now, let's make something, like,
where you'd watch the videos.
Whereas, the media player, you can go to Media.
Now Media, is where you're gonna insert,
pretty much anything you want.
Like, could be associated with images.
Here's a progress bar.
Here's a street map.
Just gotta pull this out so you can see it.
That's like a Google Maps, street map.
Here's a video player.
There we go.
So, let's say that this is, you know,
where you watch videos.
So, let's say, oh, we wanna put a search bar at the top.
You can use a search bar.
This guy's called a Search Box, sorry.
This is at the top,
where you would be searching for your videos.
Let's see.
I love this about it.
Balsamiq, you can just use icons,
and they have a lot of the logos,
that you would commonly use.
Like, they have the Twitter logo, and the Instagram logo,
and pretty much everything you'd want,
for the most common social platforms.
So, we can do that.
Look, now we have our logo, YouTube.
Let's make that little section over here,
where it shows you suggested videos.
What I would do for that,
since they're thumbnails, I'd use an image.
You know images, just come out like boxes,
which is perfect for what we want.
Let's just call it a video, so that you know our developer,
or our graphic designer, knows what that is.
With image placeholders, what you can do,
is you can, add borders and you can actually upload images,
insert them into Balsamiq.
So, you do is, you just double tap it.
Well, browse for a file.
Everybody loves cats.
Cats. This is a cool feature I like.
You can just hit Sketch it.
If I don't hit Sketch it, it's gonna insert this image,
with the whole color, it's gonna look kind of weird
with the whole, black and white thing going on.
So, I'll just say Sketch it.
Now, let's try to put it back into the size
that you'd expect.
Okay, so that looks weird.
Now, we wanna put, let's put a border on it.
Maybe that'll look better.
Ah, there you go. Now, it looks, kind of like,
one of those videos you'd have suggested to you.
Now, let's add the text, that you would go, next to it.
So, again, this is how I do it.
Remember string, String of Text.
I'll put it as the title.
So, call it the cat video.
Super, super original.
Since it's the title, I wanna make it bold.
Let's increase the size, just a wee-bit.
Okay, let's put it.
Now, you can use your keyboard to move things around.
So, if I just go left, it's gonna move it one pixel left.
Right, up, down, you get the point.
And then, right below that,
so now, if I wanna put text right below it,
all I wanna do, is hit Duplicate.
Put it right below it, and this chain's called By,
we'll just call it, the Cat Person Person.
Cause, everybody knows a cat person,
but, nobody knows a cat person, person.
Let's see. And we'll make it smaller.
Move with the bolding.
There you go.
And, let's put a view counter.
There we go.
Let's see, that's usually just a number.
So, I'll say a million people watch this video!
And, usually that is a little bit smaller.
But, I think it's pretty believable.
So, what I'm gonna do is,
I want to create this little grouping,
and I wanna make it go all the way down the screen,
which is typically what you see in YouTube.
So, what we do, click it.
We're gonna group these together.
Remember how we do group.
We hit Group. Now they're together.
Now, when I copy my group and even exit out,
doesn't really matter.
I can copy my group. Voila.
Here we go.
Lets match the grids up.
And, there we go.
Those are our suggested videos.
Now, maybe I wanted to put a container around that.
Something light.
Just go to Shape, again.
Now a shape.
I am just gonna pick a rectangle right here.
Put it right here.
And I want to expand it over.
See, notice how it covered it.
Now, they, Balsamiq has a layering, kind of like Photoshop.
If you use Photoshop before, it has layers.
The way that you would want this to fade to the back,
is you would use this little subgroup.
This will send it back one, this will send it.
Oh. this'll send it all the way to the back.
So, this will be the bottom of your,
imagine, this is kinda like paper,
laying on top of each other.
This would be the bottom piece of paper.
If you click this.
If you click this, it's gonna bring it
all the way to the top.
So, it's gonna cover anything behind it.
I just wanna send it back,
until it's behind the cat videos.
All right, So the rest of it, really,
is just, kind of, tiny little details.
It's up to you how much detail,
you honestly wanna put in here.
We can tend, like, this is a,
here's the placeholder for the image.
Whoever made the video, we can add in some text again.
This'll be the name of the video,
My Super Secret Webcam Video.
Cause, they want it to be a secret,
but, they also want the entire world to see it.
And, let's put this realistically much larger.
Okay, let's move this down, add some space.
You can add those thumbs up and thumbs down items.
Just pick an icon.
Let's put it over here.
You can even just search for thumbs.
Thumbs is one.
There you go.
Run it as small.
That makes more sense, right?
And, you can, you can even copy it.
Put it right next to it, and then just find another icon.
Thumbs, again.
This one's thumbs down, like the video.
Oh, then just stick someone's face on it,
cause it's a webcam, right?
You get the drift now.
You can put an enormous amount of detail into Balsamiq,
if you want to, but as you've noticed,
that really did not take me a lot of time.
And, I have a wireframe of a video.
You're obviously gonna wanna put more time and effort,
into whatever you actually build yourself.
But, once you actually get acquainted with it,
hopefully, by now, you are acquainted,
you can really move at lightning speed.
And, you can really produce these very, very quickly.
Now, if I wanted to make the next screen at YouTube,
I'll could just go up to file, hit Clone Current Mockup,
and look, I have the same exact thing,
and I can just move from here,
and start deleting things wherever I want,
and changing things around.
Now, when you're done,
and you're happy with what you've got,
all you gotta do, is just go up to file,
and you can save it as whatever you want it to be.
Make sure to back it up.
If you guys are on an older computer,
make sure that you don't have tons and tons
and tons of tabs open. It can really, kind of,
slow down your computer.
But otherwise, just export it to whatever you want.
I like PDF, that's one of the easiest of view.
Or, you can just do it as an image.
That's what you end up sending to your graphic designer
or your developer, and they will thank you,
a thousand times over.

--- Section 8: Review & Recap ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Introduction to Metrics ---

-: Hey, everyone.
Welcome back.
This section of the course is about metrics,
and this is one of the most important topics
that we will be covering in the course
for a product manager.
As a product manager, basically your entire day,
your entire role actually revolves around metrics
in some way or another.
So we will cover metrics in general,
like what are they?
Why are they important?
Then how do you pick them?
We're gonna go over some real life examples of metrics
at real tech companies,
and then we're gonna talk about some metrics frameworks
that will help you pick and understand your metrics.
So pay close attention, because this is a big section.
So there's a very famous saying that goes,
what gets measured gets managed,
and that is by Peter Drucker,
who is a very famous old school business consultant,
management consultant, that sort of thing.
And he was actually most active
in earlier parts of the 1900s.
That is so true, and metrics are really all about that.
So have you ever been driving down the road
and seen one of these radar automated speed limit signs?
The ones where it says the speed limit,
but then it also uses radar to show you
exactly how fast you are currently going.
These signs have been proven to reduce speed for people
even more effectively
than under threat of getting a ticket from a police officer.
The reason is because the feedback is instantaneous.
So when you get tickets from the police,
you're probably only getting one every few times
that you actually speed and a police officer catches you
and then decides to give you a ticket.
So, you know, depending on how much you speed,
it's however many times you speed
and getting a ticket in that period of time.
But with these signs,
every single time you go past a speed limit sign,
you're getting direct feedback
on here's how fast you're going,
and this has been proven, again, to be way more effective
than just being ticketed for reducing speed.
The reason that this happens is because of human nature,
of a science called feedback loops,
which means that the more frequently
you're getting accurate feedback about something,
the more effectively you are going to manage that.
This same exact principle is behind the success
of the fitness tracker industry.
So people that wear fitness tracking arm bands
or watches or heart rate monitors or whatever,
they're getting instantaneous feedback all the time
about their calories or the way they slept
or what they've been eating,
and this helps people lose weight or become healthier.
And this is the exact same reason,
because they're getting really quick feedback,
every single day or even every hour,
if they're looking at their device pretty frequently,
and this is that science at work.
As a product manager, we can use the same science
to really help our products be successful,
and this whole feedback loop process through metrics
is really the core of Agile development
and your role as a product manager.
So what are metrics?
Well, metrics is just a fancy term for a number
that describes what's going on with your product.
It's a measurement of something,
and sometimes you'll hear the word KPIs,
which stands for key performance indicator,
and this is whatever.
You can use these two terms interchangeably, to be honest.
You'll hear both of them
depending on the company you're working at.
I think KPI sounds a little bit corporate,
so we just use the word metrics.
No big deal.
Some common examples of metrics
are things like monthly active users, returning users,
churned users, things like even app store reviews,
maybe things that people do on certain platforms
like Facebook or Twitter.
It's how many posts have they made.
These are all metrics.
It's just a number
saying how many times someone has done something,
or even in terms of let's say a Netflix
or a streaming music company,
they have metrics for how fast
between the time that the user hits the play button
to when the video starts,
and in this case,
that measurement they're trying to decrease
to be as small as possible,
to have the fastest service, basically.
So metrics are different
depending on the type of the product manager you are,
the industry you're working in,
the company you're working at,
and we're gonna talk a little bit more about that.
As I keep saying,
metrics are a huge part of your life as a product manager,
and as you know,
product managers do a lot of different things
that we've already covered,
but one of the most important things
is that you must accomplish a goal,
and in order to basically accomplish that goal,
you have to first say, what are you accomplishing?
You have to do what we call defining success,
and you do that through metrics.
So you basically say,
hey, these are the numbers we're gonna try to hit
in this metric, by building this thing,
and if we do it, we're successful,
and if we don't, then something's wrong.
If we're getting close,
then we know we're moving in the right direction,
but this is our feedback loop as a product manager.
So back to the real world example on a fitness tracker,
if a person is trying to lose weight,
then they're going to have a goal
of eating under a certain amount of calories
or burning a certain amount of calories per day.
Exact same thing for us.
We have to say, here's what we wanna hit,
and when we get there, that means we're successful.
Again, this is called defining success,
and this is something you've gotta do
before every single endeavor you or your team does
or even your company does.
You have to know what are you actually trying to do here
before you start doing it.
So here's a real world quick example
from like let's say Facebook as an example.
Let's say that Facebook is trying to increase
the amount of time that people spend on Facebook.
Okay, well that's like a company-level goal,
and now let's also say that from this,
we know we want to build a feature
that's going to basically encourage people to stay longer.
But let's say we are a product manager on a smaller team,
and we know that people who comment more on Facebook,
or they make comments on, you know, posts and stuff,
they tend to stay longer than the average person.
So they looked into the data, and we know that.
What we want to do in that case
is look at building a product that,
or building a feature, rather, or improving that product
to basically encourage people to comment more.
And we would say, okay, we're gonna go for a 5% increase
in comments per person on average,
which will in turn affect the average amount of time
that everyone is spending on Facebook in general,
on that top company-level metric.
So next we're gonna take a look
at some real life examples of metrics
at some companies you may have heard of before,
and I'll see you in the next lecture.
(upbeat music)

--- Real Life Examples of Metrics ---

-: Hey, so welcome back.
And last lecture we talked about
just the basic intro to metrics.
So what metrics are?
They're just a way to measure stuff.
It's a number that is a measurement
that tells you something about your product.
And it's a huge integral part of product management
because it's the way that we are basically knowing
if we're doing things right or not.
So in this lecture, we are going to chat a little bit
about some real world examples.
And it's basically just going to be me talking about
a couple of companies
and some of the metrics that they track.
And then afterwards, we'll talk about a couple similarities
between these companies.
So the first example is Twitter.
And they have some growth metrics
that a few other companies do as well
which are total new users per month or per week or however.
They can slice it up however they want.
Then you have monthly active users,
probably also daily active users,
and then probably activated users as well per month.
And we'll talk a little bit more about that
a little bit later in this section.
So then they have some engagement metrics as well.
Things like the multiple logins per day.
Probably time spent looking at Twitter,
either the app or the website.
Then they have things like number of tweets sent
per user on average.
And then they have probably the average number of likes.
And the average number of retweets.
And then probably also the average number of follows.
So they have a good idea of the social activity going on.
And then they would also have
probably the number of messages sent,
the private messages in their direct messaging portion
of the site in the app.
So the second example would be YouTube.
And YouTube and many other companies
are going to have the same type of growth metrics
that we already talked about with Twitter.
So you have your monthly active users.
You've got your new users. Your activated users.
Your daily active users.
But where some a lot of tech companies end up differing is
their engagement metrics.
And again, we're going to talk
about the difference between growth and engagement
in another lecture.
But for now, just understand that most companies
will have similar metrics
and they'll have some that are completely different
from any other company.
So on the YouTube example, they probably have stuff
that Twitter doesn't like video views.
First of all, per user, like how many videos
did each user watch on average?
And then they would have some criteria inside of that
like, okay, they must have watched
at least 30 seconds of a video in order to call it a view.
And that's an indicator of quality
or a conservative indicator for them.
Basically letting them know
that this person's actually watching this video.
Secondly, for YouTube, they will probably have
a average viewing time overall per user.
So you could have someone that watched 20 videos,
but if each one of those videos was 1 1/2 minutes long,
that's not as valuable as having someone
that watched one video which was three hours long,
like a documentary or something.
And notice that these are specific to YouTube.
Okay, so then we have our third example
which is the favorite example, Facebook.
And Facebook's got some
really interesting engagement metrics.
Again, on the other metrics, the growth ones,
they're going to have the same sort of stuff
that most people do, most companies
like new users and monthly actives and so on.
But engagement wise, they have some pretty interesting ones.
I've seen some stuff online that talks about them
having metrics like position clicks on the newsfeed.
And that basically means they are tracking
which position on average did a person engage with
in their newsfeed.
So let's say, you open the Facebook app
and you have like something at the top of your newsfeed
from one of your friends
and you have 10 other things under that.
And you engage or you click on or you like,
or you comment on the one
that's like the fifth position down.
Well they actually think that's bad.
They want you to engage with the one that's the first.
And the reason they do that is because
it's a measurement for them of relevancy.
So they basically in their mind,
they want you to see the very most relevant thing,
the thing you wanna engage with or comment on or like
at the very top of your newsfeed.
So of course they track where you're clicking,
or where you're engaging
or where you're watching the videos at
because if it's too far down the page
then they're not doing a good enough job
of ranking your newsfeed based on your interests.
So other than that, they're going to have some metrics
like of obviously the message is sent,
and then time spent on site.
And the interesting thing about Facebook is
that they also own WhatsApp and Instagram, things like that.
So if you leave Facebook and go to WhatsApp
or leave Facebook and go to Instagram,
that's okay with them
because they own those properties as well.
And you're still basically inside
of their universe of companies.
So then they're also going to have the number of likes
that you make on average per day on other people's items
in the newsfeed or wherever.
And then of course they are also going to be tracking things
like the average number of likes
that you as a user get per post.
So on average some people have a higher average
like count per post, obviously,
if they're more popular or whatever,
more famous or celebrities, that sort of thing.
And then the interesting thing about that
is from what I've read,
they actually try to keep these numbers relatively stable.
And they also don't want anyone to not have any likes at all
or any comments at all because if you post something
and you're sharing it with your network
and then no one likes it or comments on it,
then you are less likely to come back and post again.
And of course they want you to do that.
So what they'll do is apparently sort of hold your item
in the newsfeed in front of people longer
so that you know people will see it
and maybe actually interact with it
until you get to some minimum threshold.
And at that point, then it'll start moving down the newsfeed
as a normal item.
But that way you're like, "Oh hey, I got some likes.
Like, I'll come and do this again."
So that's pretty interesting.
Okay, so just to recap real quick.
Each company is going to have a lot of the same metrics
as others on things like new users
and active users and all of that.
But when it comes to engagement,
they're probably going to have some metrics
that are specific to their company, their industry
or what they're trying to get you to do.
And they're really tracking those things closely.
So I know I've been talking a lot
about growth versus engagement metrics
and those are different categories.
And in the next lecture,
we're going to talk about these categories.
So I will see there and pay attention
because it's an important one.
(cheerful music)

--- Metrics of All Kinds ---

-: All right everyone, welcome back.
And the last lecture,
we talked about some real world examples
of metrics from companies you've probably heard of.
It was YouTube and Twitter and Facebook.
And you might have noticed that,
when I was talking about some of these metrics,
I said that here are some growth metrics,
you know, the new users
and the monthly actives and that sort of thing.
And then, here's the engagement metrics
which are things that were a little bit more specific
to each company.
A lot of times the growth ones were the same
because they were, you know, the more generic metrics.
And then, the engagement ones were very specific
to the platform.
In the Facebook example,
we had the newsfeed position engagement number.
And on YouTube we had the, you know,
number of views that were over 30 seconds
on average per person.
In this section, we're gonna be talking
about these different types, these categories of metrics.
And there are a number of categories of metrics out there.
And they are not, there's no official definition
for any of these,
but this is, in my experience,
how they're usually sectioned off.
So, in practice there's a whole bunch
of these different categories of metrics,
and these are not,
there's no dictionary definition for this
and you're never gonna have the same ones across companies.
But there's sort of general categories that,
in my experience I've seen
at the companies I've either worked with or worked for.
Some of the most common
and the ones we're gonna talk about here are growth
and activation as one category.
Engagement, retention,
then user happiness, and then revenue.
And those are really the big buckets.
So, we'll talk a little bit about each one of these.
We'll give some real life examples
and define a little bit further
what they mean.
The first category is growth and activation.
This is pretty self-explanatory.
This is a bucket
of metrics that basically tracks and measures
and forms you how your company or product is growing.
So, some examples of some growth
and acquisition metrics are gonna be total new users
per month or per week.
They're gonna have new users by source
and we'll talk a little bit about that.
And then activated users.
So, if you're working as a product manager
either on a growth team inside a company
or you are a product manager
at a smaller company,
that's also responsible for growth.
Then you want to know obviously,
how many new users you have.
But you really want to know where these users coming from.
Are they coming from the SEO optimizations you did
which is search engine optimizations,
so that people can find you
via Google and search engines and stuff like that.
Or is it that they're finding you on an app store
or is it that they're finding you on maybe a blog somewhere
or perhaps they're finding you
because one of your users shared some content
from your platform
or your app out to another platform like Twitter
and they click the link and like,
hey, what is this?
These are all very important to track
and that would be new users by source.
So, we're tracking where they're coming from.
So, activation is a big one
because there's a really big difference
between a person that has been considered
someone who's found
and maybe installed your app and an activated user.
So, what usually happens is a company
or product manager will say that
an activated user is someone that has not only downloaded
the app or gone to the website,
but they've actually signed up
and they've performed a particular type of action
like maybe, you know, making their first tweet
in Twitter's example or something like that.
This is hugely important because if you get a million people
to download your app,
but only 500 of them actually get logged in and activated,
well, that's not so useful.
The second one is retention
and retention is tied very closely
to the growth and activation metrics.
It's simply a way to find out who's coming back.
It's just how many people were here last month using
our product that are now here this month using it again.
Some examples of retention metrics are things
like a metric called actually retained users
and one other one is called resurrected users.
Again, returning users is the number
of users that are returning that are here again.
They are continually either week, over week
or day over day or month over month
using your service or your app, your product.
And then, resurrected users is basically something that
we use to describe people that we've gotten back.
So let's say that,
there was a user that was using our product last month
and they're not here this month.
They haven't been using our product this month.
But next month they do come back
because we sent them
either push notification on their mobile phone
or we sent them an email and said,
hey, did you know we have these features?
Or something like that.
Then if they do come back, we can say,
hey, that's a resurrected user.
The implication there is that they were, you know
dead or they were just gone.
So, we are now resurrecting them
and bringing them back into our product.
So, in terms of how those might actually be measured
in number sense,
let's say that a hundred users downloaded our app last month
and got activated, then we see this month that,
60 of them are actually here again this month.
Using the app, we would say that,
our user retention rate is a 60%.
We know that there's something wrong
that 40% of people did not come back.
Those people did not find it a good enough product
and that's how we'd measure it.
Then for the resurrected users,
let's say that those 40 we're now considering gone
like we've sort of lost them
because they're not here this month,
but next month we sent them an email or a push notification,
and let's say all 40 of those people come
back into our app, we would say that
our resurrected user rate was a hundred percent.
Because remember, we have 40 people that are considered
dead or gone.
And now, we are resurrecting all 40 of them means
our resurrection rate is a hundred percent.
Hey, by the way,
you might be wondering about these time periods
the one month or the two months or that sort of thing.
All of these time periods
and actual definitions are really up to each company
and, or product team to decide
the definitions on.
Basically, the only thing that really matters
about your metrics is that you're keeping them consistent.
So, if you're measuring something one way in one period
of time, you have to keep measuring it that way,
in the future in order to be able to compare
to the past and you want to keep these things the same
for as long as possible.
All right, so the next bucket of metrics is engagement.
Engagement is gonna be one of the most common things
for product managers to be tracking that work
at consumer product companies.
Engagement metrics we've already talked about a little bit.
It's things like Twitter.
How many times did a user tweet on average per day?
How many times did they like something, et cetera.
Engagement metrics are usually tailored
per company to encourage a specific type
of behavior depending on the goals
of the company or your industry, basically.
And I'll give you a real world example really quick.
I know that YouTube tracks views, they count someone
as viewed if they've watched 30 seconds of video,
30 seconds of a YouTube video.
Facebook on the other hand, tracks their video views,
I think, based off of three seconds.
So, if someone's watched
for at least three seconds, these are different.
Of course, Facebook is going to report
way more views that way
because it's pretty hard to shut off a video
in three seconds if you're just scrolling past it.
But these metrics, as you can see, are tailored
to the types of metrics that each company wants to report
both externally and internally for reasons of quality
and accuracy, and also being able to be easily compared
to stuff they've tracked in the past.
The next bucket is user happiness.
This is pretty self-explanatory.
It's just a way for us to quantitatively say
how happy are our users.
So, examples of that would be something called NPS scores
or number of customers that have written a complaint
to the customer service department.
And then, even something like the app store rating
for your particular app
and like the Android or iOS app store.
NPS means net promoter score, by the way.
And it's something that was developed a long time ago.
That's pretty ubiquitous from company to company.
It's basically a survey that goes
out to users that tracks how likely they are
to recommend that service or product to other people.
You might have actually seen these before,
if you've ever gotten a survey that says,
will you rate us on a scale of 1 to 10
of how likely they are to recommend our product?
The secret behind this though, by the way, is that,
I think, anything under a seven is basically counted
as a zero.
So, if you can't get a user to at least say,
I'm at least like a seven, eight, or nine or 10,
in terms of a scale of likelihood to recommend this
to other people, then you're basically, you know,
losing out and it's gonna throw off the average.
This is because companies want to kind of set a high bar
for customer happiness.
Overall, happiness metrics are some
of the most difficult to get because it's not as easy
as just looking at a database for, you know,
a number of times someone clicks something,
but they are very important and they are even more relevant
in industries or companies where there's little competition
or where people don't have other options
or it's a total necessity.
Some examples for that would be a cable provider
or an airline.
I know most people out there hate
their cable internet service
or their internet service at home,
but they don't really have a choice
because there's not very many choices available.
So, the cable companies, they see a lot of use, obviously,
but it doesn't mean the customer's happy.
And when they say,
how happy are you to the customers,
they're gonna say, not very.
You guys suck.
All right, so the last category
of metrics we're gonna talk about is revenue metrics.
Revenue metrics, pretty self-explanatory.
How much revenue are we making?
But there's a lot of different ways we can look at this
and these are very important
for product managers that are working
at companies where revenue
from customers is a really big deal.
Or product managers that are working inside
of consumer companies where the consumers are not
paying anything but maybe they're being advertised to,
and that's how you generate revenue.
An example of a revenue metric is LTV,
which stands for lifetime value.
And that basically means we pick a period,
let's say a long period of time, like one year,
and we say that's a customer lifetime.
And then we say over one year, on average,
how much revenue does each customer generate us?
So, within that space of one year,
we're getting, let's say 300 bucks
from each user on average.
That would be our LTV.
Another example would be a metric called CAC,
which is cost of acquisition of customer.
Sometimes it's CCA, which is cost of customer acquisition.
It's all the same thing.
It's basically how much money do we have to spend
in marketing or advertising or even salaries
for salespeople to on average acquire a customer.
This is very important to track
because we want to keep this number as low as possible.
One other example that a lot
of business to business companies put a lot
of value into is a metric called MRR,
which is monthly recurring revenue, and it's counterpart
which is ARR, annual recurring revenue.
This is basically, how much revenue are we making
per month or per year.
And this is all of our customers combined,
all of our users combined.
So, this is for a subscription service.
Let's say Dropbox, for example, they have a hundred users
and each one of those users is paying $10 a month.
Well, then their monthly recurring revenue is gonna be
a thousand bucks.
So, you can see how that works.
This is, of course, a huge indicator of value
for subscription businesses like Dropbox.
All right, so let's recap really quick.
There's a ton of metrics out there
and some of them are gonna be the same across companies.
A lot of them are gonna be different.
But the important thing to know here is that,
there's different categories of metrics.
And the purpose of these categories is to ensure that,
we are covering what's called
the customer life cycle journey, or the customer life cycle.
So, I have metrics to know how many people are finding us.
And then, signing up and then using us
and then I have a metric to measure how happy they are.
And then, I have a metric to measure
how much money are they making us?
And finally, sometimes people even add
how much are they referring us to others to account
for sort of a growth, like a viral growth.
But yeah, we wanna cover basically
the entire life cycle for each individual user.
Now, if you're at a larger company,
you might work on a team that is only focused
on really one of these categories
or one of the metrics inside of that category.
But if you're at a much smaller company,
you might be a product manager that's responsible
for a growth metric and a retention metric
and an engagement metric, and so on and so forth.
All right, so in the next lecture we're gonna get
even further into metrics.
We'll see you there.
(gentle music)

--- How to Pick Good Metrics ---

-: Welcome back, everyone.
In this lecture, we're gonna talk more about metrics.
We're gonna talk about how to pick good metrics,
what makes a good metric in the first place,
and then we'll go into a couple other details
about how metrics roll up into other top-level metrics.
So firstly, let's talk about how metrics
roll up into other metrics.
Let's say that you're working at Facebook
and Facebook's overall metric is to get people
on the site and leave them there for a long time.
You want people to spend as much time
on Facebook as possible.
Well, that doesn't mean that if you're working
on say the photos part of Facebook or the newsfeed part,
that your metric is going to be the amount
of time spent on Facebook
or maybe even on that page, it's likely that it would,
but sometimes it's not the most important metric.
Like I've mentioned before,
there are sometimes things that we know that we can track
on our individual team that makes the overall metric
for the company increase.
The example that we've used is the comments on Facebook.
If we know that people that leave more comments
on Facebook are more likely to spend more time on Facebook
or one of its related apps, then we might be working
on a team that just tries to increase the number
of comments on average per person.
This is because we know
that it will increase the overall metric
which is the metric that the company has a goal
for as a whole.
So, that's it for that part.
I just want you to understand that even
though a company might have an overall metric,
that you as a product manager might not always
be tracking that exact metric.
You might be tracking something for your team.
The second thing I wanna mention is the difference
between exploratory metrics and reporting metrics.
Exploratory metrics are things that you're not
always tracking, or always really telling investors
or your boss or other people
about how they're doing, but they're there.
It's tracking an analysis available to us just
to go poke around and see what user behavior is like.
This contrasts with reporting metrics,
because reporting metrics are the things
that we are tracking over long periods of time to ensure
that our product is doing well
and heading in the right direction.
So, an example of an exploratory metric
would be something where
let's say I'm working at Twitter,
and the overall goal is to increase the amount
of time spent again, on the website or in the app.
An exploratory metric might be the number
of times someone clicks a certain button somewhere,
because we're not really interested
in keeping track of this over time,
but if we as product managers with our team, our engineers
and our designers want to kind of try to figure
out a solution in order to keep people on the site longer,
we might go look at the buttons they're clicking
and the pages they're going to so
that we can tell when they go to this particular page,
all of a sudden they drop off
and they don't come back.
So maybe something about that page is bad and these sorts
of things are just metrics and just data we look
at to help us, inform us
on other decisions.
These exploratory metrics are basically just
data points that we go in and look at kind of hunting
for a little bit of a clue so that we can know how
to potentially build a feature to hit the reporting metric
and make that increase.
So for the purposes of this course
and for the rest of this lecture,
we're gonna be talking about reporting metrics
and these are the metrics that you're tracking
over time to make sure your product is
either getting better or getting worse.
All right, so what makes a good metric?
Well, let me first say that if you are working
at a company or you join a larger company,
I bet they're probably already going to have a bunch
of metrics per team that they are tracking
and that you can already begin to try to optimize
with features and changes and fixes and that sort of thing.
But let's say just for the thought exercise,
that you don't have any metrics to track
and this feature that you've been brought
in to work on with your team is completely new,
so you have to come up with some metrics.
Well, what makes the metrics good?
If I pick some metrics, how do I know if they're good?
The first thing a metric should be is understandable,
and that means you don't need to go
and create some crazy metric like the number
of times someone clicked this button twice
and then went back
and clicked this other thing and did this thing
and then call that a particular metric that you're tracking.
It needs to be something that's relatively simple
that you can explain just
by telling them the name of that metric.
It's usually like something divided
by something else to get a percentage or the number
of times this person or this group of people did this thing.
It's usually pretty simple,
so keep your metrics understandable.
That brings me to the second point,
which is metrics should usually be a rate or ratio,
and this goes back to what we were talking about in regards
to monthly active users versus just total number of users.
You wanna pick a metric that is not something
that's going to look like a hockey stick
no matter what you do.
Imagine if say Twitter or Facebook or something,
just basically tracked the number
of users on their platform or the number
of people that have ever signed up, that's pretty silly
because maybe some spam accounts sign up,
maybe some people sign up and hate it and leave.
What really matters is total number of users.
And then from there, you take the total number
of users that have actually logged in in the last 30 days
or something like that, and we call that monthly active.
So it's a portion of a larger number
and this is the sort of stuff that you want to be doing.
Let's give another example.
Let's say we're working at Airbnb
and for those of you that don't know,
Airbnb is a company that allows you to basically rent
out your house as a sort of independent hotel
to people around the world using their platform.
Would you want, if you're a product manager
at Airbnb, to be tracking
a metric like total number of nights booked?
Well, actually, you would want to know that number
but that number is not going to be very effective in knowing
whether or not you and your team are doing a very good job.
This is because that can be affected
by a whole bunch of stuff.
It could be affected by publicity and marketing.
It could be affected
by any number of other things, maybe the economy, et cetera.
But what we could track is the average number
of nights booked per person in a month
or let's say six months,
whatever might work for the data that you have.
This is basically measuring a ratio
which is super important
because the numbers are much smaller,
and they are more descriptive
of whether or not your product is good.
The third thing I want to point out is correlation.
You don't want to look at two metrics that are correlated
and then assume something from those that isn't true.
I'll give you an example.
So there's an old sort of metrics joke that basically says,
if you look at revenue for ice cream sales and then you look
at a metric for the number of people that drown
in a pool and die, those numbers,
those metrics, if you looked at them on a graph,
they would track each other pretty closely.
And do you know why that is?
This is because people eat ice cream
in the summer obviously, and they swim also
in the summer because it's hot out.
But you might be led to believe
if you're not paying attention,
that when people eat more ice cream, more people drown,
which makes no sense at all.
So you have to be careful about these things.
So the next point I wanna bring out is
that you should pick a metric that is actually
able to be changed and with relative ease
or you should position your metric
so that when you do make changes, the metric is changing,
either going up or down.
Here's an example of that.
Let's say that you have a particular type
of user that let's just say,
only has like one
or two hours available at all during the average day
and there is no more time
than just those two hours in the day.
In that case,
you probably wouldn't want to try to maximize the time spent
in your product or in your app
beyond the two-hour mark or maybe not even measure it all.
This is because there's some external force, again,
in our thought experiment, where the users only
have that amount of time per day.
In that case, you may want to measure something
like the number of times per week
that they're using your product
or maybe the number of times that they log in.
In that case, you might want to measure the number
of times per week that the users are using your product.
Are they coming back really frequently?
We're not gonna care about how much time they're spending
per day because we assume
once we've got them near the two-hour mark,
they're not gonna be able to spend more time
in there anyways depending on sort of
the nature of the product.
One more quick example for that is,
let's say you're running an e-commerce business
and you sell something that people only buy,
like they just only buy once per month.
Like 90% of people only buy once per month,
let's say some sort of fancy clothes.
In that case, if the users are coming in once
per month and it's very unlikely that they're gonna come
in more than once per month to use your product
or buy something from your e-commerce platform,
then it's gonna be very difficult to get them to come
in more than that.
And of course, we would want to try,
but it's going to be something that involves a lot more
than just our product team.
It's probably gonna be marketing
and all sorts of other stuff.
So what might we track instead?
Well, in that case,
we might just try to get them to spend more money
for that one time that they do shop with us once per month.
So let's do a really quick recap.
We know that metrics should be easily understandable.
We know that people should be able to know
what they're about as soon as they read
the sort of description of that metric.
You shouldn't pick metrics based on
an erroneous correlation like the ice cream
and drowning deaths example.
You want to pick metrics that actually do impact each other
and are not just tracking each other due to circumstance.
You also want to have a ratio
or a rate rather than just a number that might go
up when marketing does some sales,
or when your company gets a lot of publicity.
And we want to make sure our metrics are
with relative ease, able to be affected.
So we don't want to really try to change a number
or metric that our users are very unlikely
to behave differently within.
All right, so that's it for this one
and next, we're gonna talk about
some metrics frameworks to actually help you
think through the process
of choosing metrics and brainstorm a little bit.
See you there.
(soft upbeat music)

--- Using the HEART Metrics Framework - Part 1 ---

-: Hey everyone, welcome back.
So in the last lecture we talked
about what makes a good metric,
and all of that and the talks before that,
very useful in terms of understanding metrics.
But now you might be wondering, gosh,
there are so many things that I can pick from.
How do I even get started thinking
about what metrics are important to me
as a product manager at a company or me as an entrepreneur?
Which ones should I even think about tracking,
and is there any sort of cheat sheet for common metrics?
What we're gonna talk about in this lecture is
a metrics framework called the HEART metrics framework.
And this isn't exactly a cheat sheet
but it does help you think
through the process of which sorts
of metrics you should be thinking about to make sure
that you know what's going on in your product.
So this metrics framework was originally popularized
by a girl named Kerry Rodden at Google Ventures
and she's a UX researcher
and does some really fantastic work.
So why should we use the HEART framework?
Well, it's an acronym,
so if you know it's an acronym, you know it's good.
Executives love acronyms.
Secondly, metrics are harder than you think.
We've been talking about a lot of stuff.
So it's nice to have a little bit of a framework
to help you come up with the metrics
you should be thinking about.
So this again, is just a really simple way to think
about the customer journey.
And by that I mean, what I've mentioned before,
which is, the user has to first of all
be aware of your product,
then they have to come in
and download it, maybe if it's an app,
then they actually have to sign in
if you need them to sign in.
And there's just this whole journey
that you have to get them activated, they have to come back.
And then from there, there's a whole bunch
of different things you should be thinking about.
Like how much money am I making off of these users?
Are these users actually liking it?
Do they like it as much as they use it?
And so forth.
So what we're doing here
with the screen is I'm gonna show you a table.
And the reason I'm going to show you a table
and a real life example of this,
is because if you look up this HEART metrics framework
on the internet, there's actually not too many good sources.
In fact, the first Google result is this one,
"How to choose the right UX metric for your product,"
which is the original post that Kerry made
describing this framework.
However, there are no graphics associated with it,
so that's why we're doing this
because I wanna show you a real-life example.
So let's come up with a fictional company
and what is really hot right now?
Well, we know Uber, the car ride
or ride sharing service is a really hot topic right now.
Everyone loves Uber and maybe some people don't
but anyways, everyone knows about it.
How about Uber for X?
If you don't know what I'm talking about
there's this trend recently where, ever since Uber came out,
people have been having these on-demand location based apps
for pretty much everything
like dog grooming and all sorts of weird stuff.
So it's pretty funny that there's an Uber
for pretty much everything.
What are two other things people like?
How about alcohol?
Everyone loves alcohol.
Then how about lemonade?
Everyone loves lemonade, and if you don't,
you should get into lemonade, it's pretty good.
And I say that coming from the Southern United States
originally, where the lemonade is really good.
So let's imagine that our fictional company
or product here is Uber for spiked lemonade.
And for those of you that don't know,
spiked means alcoholic.
So basically this is going to be an on-demand location app
for the delivery of alcoholic lemonade anywhere you are.
Sounds pretty good.
So the HEART framework works off of the acronym HEART,
and they stand for these five things,
happiness, engagement, adoption and retention.
And then finally we have task success.
We're gonna talk a little bit about each of those.
So happiness is how happy is your user?
Remember when we were talking about the fact
that you may have a ton of usage from your product?
Let's say if you are a cable company,
you know cable companies are notorious
for having unhappy customers, but sometimes
there's no other choices, there's no other options.
So if you were working at a cable company for internet
for instance, then you might have a ton of usage
but that's no indicator of how happy your customers are.
This is why we need to talk about customer happiness.
Then we have engagement, and we've talked about this before.
How engaged is your user in the short term?
This is different than over the very long-term.
It's not if they're coming back month over month
but are they coming back within short time spans?
The A stands for adoption.
So how many users have actually tried your product?
Have they even logged in?
Maybe they've heard about it.
Yeah, but have they tried it?
Have they gotten in there and placed an order?
The R is for retention, which we've talked about before
when we talked about growth metrics.
So retention is, by the way,
it could be considered an engagement metric,
depends on where you're working or how things are organized.
But retention is basically are your users returning
over a long period of time?
Most commonly it's, are they returning every single month?
Then we have this concept of task success
which is the final letter in this framework.
And this is all about you saying, okay,
there's one thing at least, the most important thing
that someone should be able to do with my product.
Are users doing it?
Let's pick a metric for it and find out.
So that forms the left side of the table.
So then across the top we have three things.
So there's three columns in our table.
It's goals, signals, and metrics.
Goals is just, okay, what do you want to happen?
What is our goal?
Do we want to maximize or minimize the number
of times a user does a particular thing?
Or another example is, do we want to minimize the amount
of time they wait?
There's something that we're trying to get better
and better up to
as close to absolutely optimum as possible.
That's what goals is.
The signals column is really simple.
It doesn't seem so, but it's literally just,
what is the actual thing that we need to measure
in order to know if we are getting closer to that goal?
The third column is the easiest
and that is the metrics column.
It is basically, how do we take the goal and the signal
and express it as an actual metric over time?
And that would be the thing that we're actually looking at
as a number at the end of the day
to know if our product is doing well or not.
So together, the left side and the top look like this.
But really quick, I wanted to mention something
about this framework since it is an acronym,
and that is that as you can see, the HEART, the word heart,
spelled out, leads it to be spelled out
in terms of happiness and then engagement
and then adoption, then retention.
And in fact, if we were to order it
in terms of how a customer actually uses our product,
it would look a little bit something more like this,
which is first, they adopt something,
then they have a successful task that they've done,
that thing we want them to do.
Then they have other signs of engagement.
Finally, they are either being retained
over the long period of time or not.
And then the one on the side, at the bottom,
is the happiness, which is just,
is the customer happy?
And the reason this is the last thing
is because you can gauge this at any point in time,
you could do it the first time they've ordered something
or you could do it six months later, whatever.
It's really up to you.
It's a little bit separate, but in any case,
I wanted to call your attention to this
just because it's an acronym.
It may be a little bit confusing
but they just rearranged the letters
so that it spells out HEART.
Okay, so let's take
our Uber for Spiked Lemonade company example,
and let's go down the goals column first
and list out what our goals might be.
Okay, starting with happiness.
What is happiness for the user of our app here?
Well, we want to maximize the drinker satisfaction
with our spiked lemonade
and the delivery service that brings it to them.
So, for the engagement part of the framework here
for our product, we're going to try to maximize
the order value, or the number of orders
in a shorter period of time.
And the way we might maximize the order value
for instance, is eventually doing some add-on stuff
like little umbrellas in your glass
or extra-fast delivery or something like that.
So for adoption, we want to maximize the number
of people that have adopted the product.
And for us, that's basically going to be
the number of people who have ordered
at least once, successfully, with our product.
For the retention part we are going to do the standard,
okay, every month we want to have users come back.
So out of our total user base
we want the highest percentage possible
to come back month after month.
If we were able to get 100%
of everyone that's ever used our app to come back
and do it again and again every single month,
that would be ideal.
So that's what we're maximizing here.
So task success could be a couple things.
We could minimize the number of abandoned carts,
and that's the people who put stuff
into the ordering cart
and then you know, delete the app or turn it off
or just exit or whatever,
and they decide they don't want any spiked lemonade.
We wanna minimize that.
And then we might even go so far as to say,
we take pride in how fast you can get this spike lemonade,
not only to the delivery, but how fast you can do any app.
So let's say that we want people to be able to get that
in under five minutes from the app.
So let's maximize the number of people
who complete their order in that five minute window.

--- Using the HEART Metrics Framework - Part 2 ---

-: So let's go onto the signals column.
So what signals, what things are we going to track
in order to know about happiness?
Well, how about the app store rating?
That's a pretty good signal
for the happiness of people using the app.
If you don't believe me, just go to any app,
any popular app, look at all the ratings
and people are saying, "Oh, I love this thing."
Or, "Oh, I hate this thing."
This is a really good number to judge happiness from.
Secondly, we could track these scores from the NPS survey.
Do you remember what that was?
Net promoter score.
That's just kind of a industry standard way
of measuring user happiness through a score
through one to 10 that they say, I am very likely
or not very likely to recommend this to a friend.
So how about for engagement?
What signal should we track there?
Well, how about the number of orders per customer,
let's say in a period of a day or something?
And then how about the order value?
So we wanna get them to order as much stuff in one,
basically, order as possible,
as many dollars worth of product
as we can possibly get them to do.
So what do we need to track for adoption as a signal?
What is that thing that we need to be able to extract
from a database or whatever?
Well, we know that we need to know the number of people
who have ordered at least one glass of lemonade
using our app.
That's what we are calling adopted.
These people have adopted our product
because they've tried it at least once.
That's a thing we need to track,
who has done this at least once.
Now, on the other hand we need to be able to find out
how that compares to people who have not adopted the product
but they have downloaded the app
or downloaded and then uninstalled it, for instance.
So we also need to know the number of people
that have downloaded it in total
because we wanna be able to compare these two, remember?
So the signal for retention is just gonna be,
we just need to know who has ordered spike lemonade
and we actually also need to know the time periods
when they have done that so that we can say,
okay this was in one month
and then this other time they did it in the next month.
But we're assuming because this is signals,
this is the thing we're tracking,
this stuff is in a database somewhere,
databases always carry what's called a timestamp.
So we always know when a particular thing happened
in a database.
So for task success, what should our signals be there?
Well, how about the number of people
who did not complete an order?
What do we need from that?
Like what in the database should we track?
How about just the people that have added something
to their their cart and they never actually went and clicked
on the, you know, finalize purchase button?
And if you remember,
we were concerned with the people that are ordering
within that five minute window
because we want our app to be super quick to order stuff.
So we need to know the amount of time
that people are spending from opening the app and saying,
yeah I want to buy lemonade,
all the way to the time where they have successfully clicked
that sort of finalize purchase button.
So, the last column metrics, this is the easy one.
We just take our goal and we take our signal,
which is a thing that we were actually
physically going to track in the database
and we just say over a period of time this is the metric.
So for the happiness one,
we said that we were going to track the app store rating.
So for happiness as a metric over time,
we just say app store rating over time.
What's the app store rating from month to month?
That's our metric.
Then because we're also sending out those NPS surveys
like I mentioned, we may also want to say,
okay how many people have given us a perfect 10 score?
What percentage of total users
that have actually filled out the survey
have given us a perfect score?
Those are two really good indicators of happiness.
So for the engagement,
as a product manager at this company or a CEO,
we're gonna wanna know what is the average order value
of all of our customers per day?
By that I mean, let's say we have a hundred customers
and all of them are placing orders in between $1 and $10,
if the average is $5
then that's the number we're seeing
when we pull up our metric screen
and we want to basically move that closer and closer
to 10 or further than that
if we're shooting for a much larger number.
Then we want to know the average number of orders
that the users make per day.
So, let's say again, we have a hundred users
and on average like 90 of them are placing one order a day,
but there's some power users,
there's 10 people that order like five
or six of these per day.
We take all of that and we average it out,
that's the number that we'll be tracking over time.
So then for adoption, again, we want to know some sort
of metric coming from the goal we have
and then the signal
which is a thing in the database we're tracking.
What do we know about how many people have adopted this?
What does adoption mean?
Well, we already said that it is people
that have ordered at least one glass of lemonade.
So what we're gonna do is we're going to take the number
of people that have downloaded the app in general
and we're gonna find out what percentage of them
have actually ordered one successfully.
Notice how we divided those two things.
We basically say people that have made successful orders
versus people in general.
And we're gonna call this metric
the new users to customers rate, or let's say adoption rate.
So then for retention,
we're going to want to know our retention rate
and that's gonna be our metric because we know the, again,
the only thing we were tracking
with the signals column was the, you know, for retention
it was just, okay, who is ordering?
So what people, maybe we sign them an ID
in the database or something.
And again, we know that the database
has a time associated with it.
So, we want to know of the people that were here last month,
did they return this month?
We're gonna divide those two
and we're going to basically call them the retained users.
And that will be our retention rate, that's our metric.
Okay, so task success.
If you remember on the goals part of the task success
for this app, we said that users should be able
to check out really quickly
because our app is really easy to use.
And if you remember on the signals part,
we said in the database,
we're gonna track how long people spend in the app
and specifically how long they spend
between the time they basically open it
and indicate they wanna place an order
to the time that they actually complete that order.
So, for the metric that we're gonna track here,
it's just going to be the average time it takes
everyone that uses our app to complete their order.
So if we have a hundred users
and they're taking, you know, three minutes, four minutes,
four and a half, some are taking six or seven.
We take the average of that and we use that as our metric
and we try to get that average as low as possible.
And then for minimizing abandoned carts,
we wanted to know, remember in the signals column,
we wanted to know the number of people
that indicated they wanted to start an order
and then the number that actually completed the order.
And we just do the math there,
and then we have a ratio of completed orders
and we have a ratio also of incomplete orders.
And we said we were gonna try to minimize that.
So that's it, that's all of the stuff.
And if you put all this together,
it's just a really big table.
So that's why I showed it to you, sort of,
one column one road of time
because it can look a little daunting at first.
So once you've got this all sort of filled out,
you can just take a look at it
and it's a really good guide to thinking about
the kinds of stuff that you should be potentially tracking.
However, there are some tips I wanna give you
on using this framework
because there are a lot of open questions I find
when people use this for the first time.
First of all, people always ask
whether or not you can use this for a product
or an entire company or just a small feature.
Well, you can use this for anything.
This framework, the HEART Metrics Framework
is very flexible.
So you could use it at a small company
in order to think about the customer lifecycle journey
through the entire product that the company has,
and you can also use it at a huge company
where you're a product manager on a team
that is only working on a small feature
because even features have adoption rates
and this sort of thing,
and happiness with particular feature, et cetera.
So you can use this for either, it's useful for both.
Second, this metric framework is used for reporting metrics,
not exploratory metrics.
Remember, exploratory metrics were just data points we have
in our database that we can go query, like whenever we want,
to basically find out a little bit about user behavior
but it's not stuff that we're saying to ourselves,
this needs to be on a dashboard.
So this framework is for the stuff that is on a dashboard.
It's the stuff that you do report up.
You report it to your investors,
you report it to your executives or your boss.
That's what this framework is for, the reporting metrics.
Thirdly, it's important to know
that you don't have to use all of the metrics
that you've come up with when you are doing this exercise
and putting together this table.
The reason is because it's pretty overwhelming.
There's a bunch of stuff you'll end up with
in the metrics column where you're just saying,
well, I have to track all of these.
Well, it's not always the case that you need to track
every single one of these,
but it's a good exercise to, sort of,
list out the things you might track.
And then you may only say,
oh, I only want to track engagement
and I only wanna track happiness.
But the other stuff like task success or adoption,
I'm not gonna track that, someone else will
or it's not important to our company at this time.
So don't think you have to use everything,
just pick the ones that you really think are very important
for your business or your product.
So the fourth thing is actually really cool
and that is that these signals column can actually be used
as a sort of guide to what you need to do
on the engineering side to get ahold of these metrics
and put them in the database so that you can track them.
Let's say, again, that you don't have metrics being tracked
and you've got a new product
or you're working on a new feature at a company
and you say, all right we need some metrics
'cause that's how we're gonna define success
and that's how we're gonna know if we succeeded
and you don't have anything.
Well basically you can just do this exercise,
you can take the signals column
because remember that's the stuff that we want to track,
that's the actual data we need.
And you can just hand that,
basically that column to your engineers
and talk it over with them and be like,
here's the signals that I need from the database
and then we need to basically turn them into a ratio
and express them as a metric.
But it's a really handy way to show engineers
what kind of data do you need from the backend
in order to know whether or not you're doing well.
So that's it for the HEART Metrics Framework.
It's a really handy tool, more like an exercise actually,
to get you thinking about metrics
in a sort of a way that follows the customer journey.
And on that note, the next lecture also does the same thing
in a little bit of a different way.
It's another metrics framework
and it's called AARRR metrics, Pirate Metrics.
It's pretty common in Silicon Valley.
So, check it out and I'll see you there.
(soft upbeat music)

--- Using the AARRR (Pirate) Metrics Framework ---

-: Hey, and welcome back.
In this lecture we're gonna be talking about
one more metrics framework that will help you out
with deciding on which metrics you should look at tracking
for a new product or business.
This framework is a little bit lighter than the last one,
a little bit lighter than the HEART framework
we just talked about.
It's pretty short and sweet
and it's pretty popular in the Silicon Valley.
This framework is also really commonly used
with software as service businesses.
So the framework is called AARRR,
as in like, "AARRR, I'm a pirate."
Kind of weird, right?
But the guy that came up with it, Dave McClure,
he's a venture capital guy out in Silicon Valley,
who is actually a partner in 500 Startups,
which is a venture capital firm.
So he knows a little bit about what he's talking about,
and he came up with this framework himself,
because he is investing in companies.
And he said like, "These are the metrics that I like to see.
These are the ones that you should focus on."
The reason it has that weird name is because
it's A-A-R-R-R, a five step process,
acquisition, activation, retention,
referral, and then revenue.
This framework is pretty popular with entrepreneurs
or people doing much smaller businesses.
So the general idea here is that
for each of these five stages
you pick a metric that you want to measure.
And again, just like the HEART framework,
this is a way of getting us to think about
the life cycle of our user.
We'll go over each one of these really quickly,
because we've talked a lot about all of this so far.
Just want to make sure that you're aware of this one.
The first one, acquisition, is just like it sounds.
We need a metric for us acquiring a user.
That means the user went to our website
or downloaded our app.
One of these, they have arrived.
They know about you
and now they are indicating their interest
to begin using you by taking that step.
The second one, activation.
I've talked a little bit about it already.
It just means that the customer
that we've acquired is now activated.
So they've signed up or they've entered their info
on our mailing list or they have
integrated the app with another app
that you're considering to be an important step.
It just means that they are now active.
And you can define that however you want.
Some people just say, "Okay,
if they've made an account, they're activated."
Other people will say, "Okay, they have to make an account
and then they have to do one small thing
so that we know that they are now officially active."
Let's say adding a profile picture
or connecting their phone book contact list
to find their friends on your app or something like that.
Pretty easy.
The third one is retention.
It means just like we've talked about before,
they come back, they're repeat users.
Notice how there's not so much emphasis on engagement here.
This is because the framework just assumes
that you're maximizing engagement in the first place
and that if you're having someone being retained,
well, they're gonna be engaged,
otherwise they wouldn't have come back to be retained.
So an example of trying to optimize your retention rate
would be to send the user a notification to their phone
if they haven't logged in in like a week or two weeks,
or send them an email drip campaign,
when you sign up for those emails
and then they email you like once a week
and then they email you like once every two weeks
and then once a month,
they're just trying to get you to come back.
And the fourth one is referral,
which means are users happy enough with your app
that they're going to refer it to others?
And this doesn't just mean user happiness
in fact, it's focused, the way this thing is built,
or the way that it's framed, from Dave McClure's mind,
is that you can optimize it beyond
just making the users happy enough
to talk to their friends in real life about it.
In fact, you could put a feature in
where they could share it with their friends
and maybe get some credit for doing that.
You might have seen this with Dropbox,
where when you sign up and you invite a friend
you get some free storage, this sort of thing.
So referral, that's easy.
They're gonna share it with others.
And the last one is revenue.
That means you are making revenue from this user,
and that is the furthest step down the funnel.
So if you're a consumer company,
that means eventually that they're maybe
buying a subscription or they've bought like a pro version
or a full fledged version of your program or your app.
Or if you're a company that's free to use
then maybe they are seeing advertisements
and you can gauge that per user,
you're making this much money off of them.
The goal here is just to quantify
the revenue per user that you're getting.
So that's it.
Just those five stages.
And the way this framework is meant to be used is,
you just use those five stages as a guide.
So for each one of the five,
those five steps down the funnel,
you just think of a metric that you can measure
that will tell you how you're doing
on each one of those steps.
Because each one leads to the other.
You're not gonna get revenue from someone
unless they are first activated.
So you have to get a lot of people acquired
and a lot of people activated,
and then go all the way down the funnel
and you want to get that bottom bucket revenue
as big as possible.
So you optimize the metrics all the way down.
It's just an easy way of thinking about
that journey for the user.
So if you want to learn more about
the AARR metrics framework,
or Pirate Metrics Framework from Dave McClure,
just Google it.
There's a slide deck and a presentation he gave
that sort of put him on the map for this.
He became very popular because of this.
It was meant originally as his suggestion
to companies that he's investing in
or people that want him to invest in them,
because he feels these are the most important
to venture capitalists and those types of people.
So if you're in Silicon Valley or making a startup
and you want to get some investment money or something,
this is a great place to start,
because these things do matter a lot
to venture capital investors and other investors in general.
That's it for this lecture.
It wasn't very difficult.
AARR, Pirate Metrics, Dave McClure, good stuff to know.
I promise you, if you know these two metrics frameworks
and you tell people about them
or you're in a job interview and you mention them
or anything like that, they're gonna be impressed.
And I'll see you in the next lecture.
(upbeat music)

--- Tracking Your Metrics in Practice ---

-: Welcome back.
So by now you should feel pretty confident about metrics,
about what they are, why they're important,
and a few ways you can go about choosing your own metrics.
And likely if you're joining an established company
on a team or something like this,
you'll probably already have metrics to track
and they'll probably already be actively tracked
in the back end.
So in the case that you're working
for one of these companies
and the metrics are already there,
you'll probably be working with an insights team,
or analytics team, or even a data science team
to get the metrics that you're looking for to report.
But let's imagine for a moment
that you actually have no metrics
and you've decided what you want
to track using the earlier lectures,
but you have no idea.
Well, in this lecture I wanted to talk about a couple
of my favorite tools to track metrics
and that are really easy to use.
So the first one is probably one
of the most popular analytics tools out there.
It's Google Analytics,
and this is a really easy thing to install
and will give you all sorts
of tracking information on your website.
And they even have a component
that delivers on mobile tracking.
So five stars for Google Analytics,
it is awesome, I highly recommend it.
Secondly, there's a really cool tool
for websites called Crazy Egg,
and this gives you all sorts of click data
on where people are clicking and that sort of thing,
but also gives you these really cool,
like, heat map things where you can see with colors,
like, a heat map of where people have been clicking
and moving their mouse, and scrolling.
It is pretty cool and gives you a ton of insight.
The next one is KISSmetrics,
and it is an awesome solution for both web and mobile,
and it provides a ton of data,
and you can set up custom metrics,
and do calculations on the fly,
and look at all sorts of crazy graphs.
It's really good, but it's not cheap.
So the fourth one is similar to KISSmetrics,
and in fact it's a big competitor.
I think it's probably about 50/50 split
between the people who like KISSmetrics versus Mixpanel,
but it's also not cheap,
but it's extremely good to use for both web and mobile,
and has some really cool features like a calculator,
and you can look up individual user behavior.
You could even hook it up to stuff
like email and push notifications
so you can send users messages to try to retain them.
So the fifth one I'll recommend is Optimizely.
And Optimizely is actually more of an A/B testing tool,
but it also provides some really good click tracking
and that sort of thing that you can set up
to see how many people click where and where they're going.
It is really good and it is super easy to use
compared to a lot of other A/B testing tools out there.
I highly recommend it and you can actually just go demo it
for free on their website.
So the last one I wanna mention is one of my favorites,
and that's because it's not a tool itself for metrics,
but it's a metrics hub.
So if you imagine you have all these metrics tools out there
and they all integrate with either your mobile app
or your website through an API,
which we'll talk about later,
but you usually have to put a piece of code on your site
or in your app in order to track stuff.
And the problem is if you switch metrics tools,
then you will usually have to switch out that code,
and then to make it even worse,
let's say you have one metrics tool
and you have a year of using that,
and you have all this data in there,
and then you switch to another one to try it out.
Well now you've lost all the historical data,
because you're switching to a new tool.
Well Segment solves this problem because it's like a hub.
So you connect other services to it,
and then you connect your app or your website to Segment,
and this way you can basically plug
and unplug any other solution,
and it will just automatically send the data
to the tool that you would like.
So it's really good if you consider
setting up with Segment first
and then trying out a whole bunch of other tools.
It even keeps a backup of your data.
All right, so that's it for the metric section
and I hope you paid close attention,
because this stuff is super important
as a product manager or an entrepreneur.
Everyone needs to know this stuff.
So in the next sections we're gonna get even deeper
into the world of product management.
It's time to get our hands dirty.
I'll see you there.
(upbeat electronic music)

--- Section 9: Review & Recap ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Introduction to Epics ---

(upbeat music)
-: What's up everyone? Welcome back.
So, in this section, we're gonna get into
the real nuts and bolts of product management
and managing a project day-to-day as a PM.
This lecture is a little bit longer,
but it's extremely important,
so I really recommend you pay attention here.
So before we start talking about building,
we need to understand that the things companies build
come from an overall vision
that's established by the CEO or founder.
So the question is,
how does this vision turn into things that get built?
Okay, so we know that the CEO and founder or executives,
they have this vision that they want to achieve
about where the company is going
and really what the purpose is in two, three, or five years.
In order to achieve the vision,
a company has to have goals that they want to reach
to achieve it, to get there to that vision.
Like vision, the goals are decided by the executives,
but then they're defined further into metrics usually,
like increase new users by 5% this year.
So once these goals are established,
the management teams come up with
what are called initiatives.
These are things that the whole company
is gonna do and build
in order to reach those goals.
An example of initiative would be
translate the product into three other languages this year.
Underneath initiatives, we have what are called releases.
Now, don't worry too much about releases right now,
because it's not really the same at every single company,
but really what it is,
is just a grouping of new features or functionality
that's released to the users, to the public,
on one particular date or time period.
We can continue our example
and say that if we translated the product
into three additional languages,
we might decide that we have one release in February
where all three languages are available to the public.
That would be our release.
But underneath releases,
there are features and functionality that get released,
the product management world calls these epics.
Underneath epics,
there are things called stories and requirements,
but we're gonna talk about that part in another lecture.
Let's finish off this lecture
by diving deeper into this concept of what epics are.
First, we must start with a statement of things
that we're building to solve a problem
and clearly show what features or functionality
we intend to build in order to do that.
This is what we call an epic.
We learned in previous lectures
about the concepts behind minimum viable products,
customer interviews, and wireframing.
We use these tools to help us make the right decisions
in solving user problems with features.
But once we know what we want to actually build,
how do we actually get it built?
Well, that's what all this stuff is gonna be about,
and that in particular is where epics come in.
An epic is really just product management lingo
for a grouping of one or more features or functionalities
that we want to build.
It's the fundamental brick that we build with
as a product manager and a product team.
Just so you know,
usually a product team will build out three to five epics
during a quarter, like a quarter of a year.
This depends on the company size and all of that,
but in general.
This really just depends
on how much effort the epic's gonna take
and that sort of thing.
In real life, an epic example
would be something like translate the app to Spanish,
or implement photo sharing in direct messages,
or allow users to upgrade to a pro membership.
This stuff might sound a lot to you like a feature,
and that's because it is.
One of the reasons that we use the term epic
instead of feature
is because not all things we do as a product team result
in a new feature for an outside user,
so the term reduces confusion.
There are some other reasons as well,
but we're not gonna really get into it here.
It's something that will become apparent as you continue.
For instance, we could have an epic
that is called migrate our data to a new database.
This isn't really a feature for end users,
like the people out there using our product,
but it's something that, internally,
our engineers might need to do,
and we might need to do it to make sure we can scale
or that we can support more users in the future,
so we still gotta do it,
and it would still be called an epic.
Epics are also defined as a piece of work
that takes longer than one sprint to build.
If there's something smaller that you want to build,
and it's gonna take less time than one sprint,
then it wouldn't really need its own epic,
it would just need a user story.
Now, don't worry quite yet about user stories
because we're gonna talk about that in another lecture,
but just know that epics are above user stories,
they contain features and functionalities
and user stories inside of them.
So epics are the fundamental groupings
of features or functionalities that teams build.
In the next lecture, we're gonna talk about
what they actually look like in real life
and how you might go about making one.

--- Let's Get Into Epic Specs ---

-: So now that we understand what epics are in concept,
let's talk a little bit about how they work in reality.
Most project management software
gives you the ability to create an epic
and then add features to that epic.
This really depends on the project management software
you're using but in any case,
epics always have documentation with them
and describes what it is you're building and then why.
This documentation is called an Epic Spec Sheet,
and it's sometimes referred to as a Requirements Document.
You can make one pretty much anywhere,
like Google Docs, your project management tool,
or anything else that you want,
it's just gotta kind of be out there
in the public for people at your own company to look at.
The purpose of an epic spec sheet
is to allow anyone in your company to read it
and understand exactly what you're building.
It also serves as a guide
for your own team as you build things.
So what will these epic specs look like?
Well, they usually have four main areas,
an introduction, the product requirements,
the design requirements,
and then the engineering requirements.
As a product manager, you're in charge of creating
and maintaining the whole epic spec sheet
and the epic itself
but you're especially responsible
for the first two sections,
which again are the introduction
and the product requirement section.
Let's go through each section
of a typical epic spec sheet individually.
So first we've got the introduction.
This is really just a summary of what the feature
or features you're building are for
and why you're building it.
What metrics are you trying to improve?
And you can also put in any links
to supporting documentation or other miscellaneous things
like marketing plans, legal requirements,
and that kind of thing.
This is also where you can write down
what a feature or functionality looks like,
some early wire frames
and what it looks like in an ideal state down the road
versus what you're going to start out building
for your MVP and then maybe what it looks like
for a V2, et cetera.
So the second section is the product requirements.
And here we're talking about the features
or functionality that we're developing in detail.
We go deeper on what is required.
For instance, we might say that the feature has to be fast
or it has to be available in a certain language
or it must generate a certain type of data
and then store it for later use.
So the next section is the design requirements.
This section is to be filled out by both you
and the designer together, but a little bit more emphasis
needs to come from the designer here
since they're the experts.
Let's imagine that for a particular feature
the designer wants to display the user profile picture
with a really high resolution
because they think that's the best design,
this is where that would be stated.
This is also where you and your designer will attach
any early wire frames and sketches
or high fidelity prototypes to help the engineers
better understand the requirements
and what's gotta be done here.
So now onto the engineering requirement section
of the spec sheet.
This is the portion that is mostly filled out
by your engineers after you discuss the product
and design requirements with them.
Here is where the engineers can write out
database and technology requirements
or outline the series of things that must be done
on the technology side in order to support the new feature.
An example here would be developing
a certain API endpoint in order to get the high resolution
picture stated in the design requirements.
Or they could note that they need to
work with another team to access their database
in order to get the information that's required
to make this feature.
So let's recap here.
Epics always have accompanying documentation
or spec sheets to inform other teams
or guide ours as we build.
In most cases this epic spec sheet
will have a few major sections including an introduction,
product requirements, design requirements,
and engineering requirements.
It's important that your epic spec sheet
is available to anyone in the company
so that they can easily understand who is building what
like which teams are working on what things
and why they're working on them.
I also wanna mention that
the way that companies do epic spec sheets
is not the exact same from company to company.
Some companies will say our epic specs or requirements docs
need to have more information or less
and some companies don't even use them at all.
But this is the standard practice
and you absolutely need to be familiar
with it as a product manager.
So we've got the basic foundation
of a new feature or functionality
or set of functionalities with epics and epic spec sheets.
Let's find out in the next lecture where we go after.

--- User Stories and Acceptance Criteria ---

-: Hey, welcome back.
So now we're gonna talk about user stories
and acceptance criteria, which are underneath Epics.
And we already know that an Epic
has an Epic spec sheet associated with it
to describe what we're doing here
and what sorts of functionalities we need and all of that.
But we're gonna talk about now how we actually get that
into the developer's hands and turn it into work.
So here we're gonna assume we've made a decision
on what we want to build.
We've outlined the phases that we're gonna build it in
and we've put all that in the Epic spec sheet.
Now, the task is to put this work
into our project management software,
so that the engineers can start working on it.
This is where user stories and acceptance criteria come in.
So a user story is just a way to describe a thing
we're going to build that delivers some type
of functionality to the end user.
An example of a user story is,
as a user I want to send pictures
in a direct message to my friends,
so that I can share my favorite photos with them.
That's kind of a weird thing, right?
It's a weird format.
User stories always follow that format.
As an X, I want to do Y, so that I can Z.
So why do we do this whole weird formatting thing?
Why are we describing work to be done in this weird way?
Do you remember how product managers are responsible
for the what and the why?
And the engineers and designers are responsible for the how?
That's the reason that user stories follow this weird format
because the product manager is usually the person
that writes them and puts them into the product management
or the project management software.
By writing them this way, we can avoid saying
how something should be done on a technical level.
In other words, by writing in this format,
we're not telling engineers how to do their jobs,
we're just telling them functionally as a user
what we want the user to be able to do.
Okay, so where do we write user stories
and how do they get to your engineer?
Well, they belong inside your project management tool.
And no matter which software you're using
for project management, there's probably some kind of place
or card or something where you can write the work to be done
and then you can change that card or that place
into different statuses, like to do, in progress,
and then done, these little cards,
or whatever you want to call 'em.
They're commonly called tickets
in the product management world,
and it's where your user stories belong,
along with proper designs from the designer.
So engineers take the user stories, they complete them,
and then they move on to the next one.
However, before we can say that a user story is complete,
we have to make sure that the functionality
does what we intended it to do.
This is where acceptance criteria comes in.
Acceptance criteria is just a set of conditions
that software must satisfy to be considered complete.
Typically, acceptance criteria is written
inside of the ticket with the user story
and sounds a little bit something like this.
Given I am a user
and I click the add picture button in the direct message,
I am presented with a pop-up window to choose the file
I can upload, submit it with the upload button
and see a preview of the uploaded image.
And then here's another one.
Given I am a user who has successfully uploaded a photo
from my computer, when I click send,
the image is sent to my friend
through the direct message and it appears in the chat.
This sounds really specific, right?
Well, the purpose of acceptance criteria
is to be very specific on how a feature should function.
It provides a list of things that you can test
to make sure it works before you release it to the public.
This is also extremely helpful for engineers
who like everything to be very specific
so that they can think through
the process of engineering this stuff correctly.
As a product manager, you are usually responsible
for testing completed tickets and stories
before approving them to go to the public
or to go out live in your product.
So that's it.
Tickets inside of project management software
have user stories that describe
what a user should be able to do,
followed by some acceptance criteria
that really spell out exactly how it should work.
Okay look, if all of this
is a little bit confusing to you, don't worry.
I'm gonna show you a real life example coming up.
I will see you in there.

--- Real Life Example of Epics, Specs, User Stories, and the Backlog ---

-: Hey everyone, welcome back.
So if you were left a little bit confused
from the last things we talked about
with the epics and spec sheets,
user stories and acceptance criteria,
I'm gonna show you a real life example here
inside a tool called Jira, J-I-R-A.
And this is not the only tool you can use.
In fact, I don't recommend it
unless you work at a very large company
but it is very common at large companies.
You can also use a whole bunch
of other tools we'll talk about, but I'll show you
in JIRA because this is kind of an industry standard.
So let's get into it.
Let's go down my screen
and I'll show you the real life example.
All right, so what we have here is a screen
that is inside of a project I've created.
And I'm gonna pretend that this project inside of JIRA
is basically the project that my team owns.
I'm a product manager and I lead a product team.
And this is the project my team owns.
And so what you can see here is, this is what is called
I'll expand this so you can see this better,
This is called the backlog.
And a backlog is merely just a place
that we hold things that we plan to do later
but we're not working on quite yet.
If you remember, we do sprints in the scrum model.
So the stuff that we're working on right now
it goes into the sprint and we start working on it.
And then when the sprint is over,
we see what we got done and what we didn't
and we add more stuff from the backlog to the next sprint.
And that's how we work.
The backlog is just a place to hold stuff
that you plan to do.
So what I've got here is an empty sprint at the top.
And then here I've got my backlog.
And over here on the left side, you see the epics.
So like I said, most project management softwares
like Pivotal Tracker or JIRA.
They're gonna have places for epics.
And in other ones you might just have to create
some sort of structure yourself.
But here you can see that I've selected all issues.
And that's basically all of the things in my backlog,
all the user stories basically that I want to do
but may or may not already be inside of an epic.
And then here we have one epic
which we've called the direct message photos version one.
And then I've got another one here
that's a technical epic that's not user facing
and it's My great user database.
We can see here in the backlog we've got four tickets here
that have user stories inside of them
that belong to this epic.
And I can click on this and it will only show those.
And then below those, I've got the stories and the tickets
for migrating the user database.
So let's go ahead and add a couple
of these things to our sprint
or pretend like we're gonna start a sprint basically.
So we know that we're gonna work on this epic.
We're gonna try to implement direct messaging and photos.
We're gonna do that.
And we're going to also be able,
we also want users to be able to cancel a photo being sent
in mid-transfer.
And then there's some other things here where, okay
users can maybe upload the photos
from a URL and they can also upload from copying pasting
but that's gonna take some more effort.
So we're actually considering moving that
to maybe another epic where it's the direct message
photos version two, or it's our second phase.
But for our minimum viable product, we just
want to allow people to upload photos from their computer.
So that's what we'll start with.
I'm also going to add maybe the first phase
or the first ticket here
from our migrating the user database Epic into our sprint
because maybe we have two engineers that are working
on the photo indirect messages
and another engineer is working on migrating this database.
So what happens is we've got our sprint loaded
up here and we click Start sprint.
And it says, "How long is the sprint?"
Because not all companies use two week sprints
but it does pre-fill with two weeks.
You can choose some other options here too.
We'll click Start.
And this brings us to the active sprints area.
So you can see we have items here that are to do
then we have in progress, then we have done.
And we're gonna start, let's pretend like we're an engineer
and we're working on stuff.
What's gonna happen is they're gonna say,
"All right, I'm working on this."
Now it's in progress and eventually we move it to done.
But what are they actually working on?
Let's move this back here
and let's click on this first item.
You can see that it's part of an epic here
which is the direct messages with photos.
And I will just go in, JIRA's a little complex
so bear with me here.
This is why not many people like it.
But we'll go into the more details for this actual ticket.
So inside of it, we can see that this is the ticket.
And the ticket is send photos through direct message.
Inside we've got a user story.
So as a user, I want to be able to send pictures
in a direct message by clicking the photo sharing button
so that I can share my favorite photos with friends.
And we have those acceptance criteria I talked about.
So given I'm a user
and I click the add picture button in the direct message
I'm presented with a pop-up window to choose the file
I can upload, I can submit it with the upload button.
And then I see a preview of the uploaded image.
This is also a place you can see where we've got a couple,
we've got a wire frame in here, right?
So this is where we would implement
or put in the wire frames
or mocks where it shows the designer has said, "Okay
this thing is this many pixels wide
and this many pixels tall."
So those go into the actual user stories themselves.
But I wanna show you one more thing
and that is, because this is a ticket
has a user story in it, it's part of an epic.
So what does that epic look like?
Well, we can click here, we can go
to the actual epic itself.
And this is just the inside
of that epic that we saw on the backlog screen earlier.
Basically it has those sections that I was talking about.
So we have an introduction and it's like, okay
this feature's gonna allow users to send photos
to each other through the direct message.
It says, "Our research shows
that 80% of people would use this.
And we tested it with people
in user tests and they really liked our designs."
And basically we say, "Okay, ideally
in the future we want to be able to share animated gifts
as photos as well
and maybe paste photos from the clipboard.
But for this MVP, we're only going to allow uploading
from a device that's just to kind of get the base level
in there without doing too much work yet
still providing some functionality for the users.
Notice that we also are saying we expect this
functionality to increase the number
of messages sent per user by 15% on average.
And you know, this results in a 4% time in app
for each user over the course of a week, it increases by 4%.
This is all stuff that you
as a product manager are responsible for figuring out ahead
of time using data and then writing in here in the epics.
So then we've got the product requirements, okay.
User can initiate a photo message from the message window.
User can select a photo from their own device
or a connected device, user can preview an image
before sending.
We want users to be able to send very
high resolution images.
This is all stuff that you're gonna think,
"Okay, as a product manager, according to data
this is what we're gonna need
in in terms of functionality here
for this to be successful through all the testing
and user interviews we've done and that sort of thing."
And then you and the designer work
on the design requirements
but a lot of it comes from the designer.
They're saying, "we should store the photos on our servers
so that the users can always see these pictures
even if they go to like another computer
they wanna look at the old pictures they sent."
And this is something that UI designers and UX designers
they're thinking about the user experience.
So they're going to say things like this
like it's important for them to see it in multiple locations
because they think that is important as a UX designer.
And that is up to them.
So then we have, okay,
maximum photo size should be 5,000 by 5,000 pixels.
The designer thinks that's very important
previews should be this size.
And then also they're thinking about that actual experience.
So once the user successfully uploads
then we show a success indicator.
And then we have the engineering requirements.
So the engineers have looked
at this with us at the Epic spec
and we've talked to them about all this functionality.
They've read the design requirements
and they come in and they write some additions.
They're like, "Okay, for this
we're gonna need a photo database,
'cause we don't have one yet.
It's gonna be able to need to scale
to a hundred million images
with a maximum file size of 10 MB per image."
So they're thinking ahead in terms
of how much traffic they can support, and if it's scalable
we're gonna need to pull user IDs
from the user profile table in order to associate
that message and that photo and that user together.
And then they're gonna ensure
that the content delivery network is optimized for this.
So we can get pictures
to people over in Europe really quickly.
So, so on and so forth.
You understand just by going through this.
And then you see we also have some wires in here
and usually this is some of the earlier wires.
And then in the actual tickets themselves
we've got the very specific wires around, okay
the pixel widths and all that, like I mentioned before.
And then JIRA allows you to comment down here
and it shows you the issues they call 'em issues
or tickets in the Epic.
Okay, so really quick, let's recap on this.
I'm gonna go back to the work board.
This is where in a sprint and this is what's going on
but we'll start off in the backlog.
We've added stuff to this sprint.
The sprint is right here, the backlog is right here.
This is stuff we're doing in the next sprint
or the one after, or just down the way.
And then you can also reprioritize stuff
on the backlog based on, you know, things that happen.
Like is this now more important than this?
And this is something that you
as a product manager are also responsible
for as the prioritization.
We're gonna talk about that later.
But you can do that in most project management softwares.
So then once we're in the sprint
we can go to the sprint that is currently active
and we've got to do, in progress and done.
The engineers come in here
they click this, they're like, "Okay, what is this?"
Okay, here's the user story, here's the acceptance criteria.
And they're like, "All right."
And they put it in progress
and they start coding and then they go to done.
And in some cases, in some companies
you'll even have a step before done that is called QA
or testing.
QA stands for quality assurance.
And this is sometimes where engineers move stuff
before it is sort of approved.
And that's usually the phase when product managers
and designers will go through the acceptance criteria
and literally use a test version on a test device
or a test website and say, "Okay, is all this stuff working
like we said it would?"
And then they go, "Okay, it is approved."
And then they move it to done.
And then after the two weeks, you should be done with all
of the things that you have in your sprint.
So that is really it.
That's an overview of typically what an epic looks like.
It's just kind of a container, a grouping of stuff
but you have an epic spec with it or requirements
document that tells everybody about why you're doing this
what you're expecting.
And then you've got the requirements from the engineers
and designers, and then you've got
the tickets that contain those user stories
and acceptance criteria.
All of this stuff combined together.
It makes the actual day to day workflow
of engineering and product management together
in a product team at a tech company.
All right everyone, I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Estimations and Velocity ---

(upbeat music)
-: What's up, everyone?
So I want to talk really quick
about how we estimate the time it's gonna take
to do a particular software project
or how to figure out how long it's gonna take
to have us build something so that we can say,
"Okay, at this point in time, we're gonna have this."
This is very much related to road mapping,
so I wanna bring it up before we talk about road mapping.
First, let's talk about a real world situation.
And this is gonna help you understand software estimation
a little bit more.
Okay, imagine that you're taking your car to a mechanic
and you say to the mechanic,
"I would like you to replace my engine.
I just want you to take it out, put another one in."
Well, if your car is, let's say, a particular brand,
and let's say it's a BMW, 'cause you're awesome
and BMW's the best car out there, I think,
and the mechanic, he's a BMW mechanic.
So odds are that it's a BMW car, BMW mechanic,
he's probably done this 100 or 1,000 times in his career.
He's gonna be able to say, "All right,
well, that will take me six hours or maybe one day
and I'll have it ready by tomorrow."
This is something that's probably very true.
It's very easy for someone
who's done something 1,000 times
to predict how long it's gonna take.
Now imagine that everyone on the entire planet
has a different car and that all the mechanics
are not specialists in any one particular car brand
because everyone's building the cars themselves
out of stuff they found at home.
It's like everyone has a custom car.
Now, if you bring your car into a mechanic,
do you think they're gonna be able to give you
an accurate estimate on how long that's gonna take?
All right, well the answer there is no because, okay,
they've never seen your car before, let alone worked on it.
And it's going to take them a while to get in there
and see how you built your car.
Is your engine like a steam engine or a gas engine
or an electric engine or like what is it?
And if they try to give you an estimation like,
"Okay, this is gonna take six hours,"
they're probably going to be wrong.
The best they could do is give a really
conservative estimate and just say like,
"This is maybe gonna be like a week
and then I'll look into it
and if it looks like it's gonna be easier,
then maybe it's gonna be a little bit before then
and I'll call you and let you know."
So why is this analogy appropriate for software development?
It's appropriate because this is the way
software actually works.
You have the engineers,
who are pretty much the mechanics in this situation,
and then you have the things they work on,
the systems and databases and code bases that they work on,
which are almost always completely unique.
From company to company,
the engineers are building things in different ways,
in different languages and styles
depending on the needs of the company.
And to make it even worse, that stuff,
those code bases, is changing all the time.
So one day I could be an engineer working on a code base
and then I come in next week
and try to work on the same code
and four engineers have edited it in between that time,
working on some other feature.
So things change and I have to get used to it.
This, in a nutshell,
is why software estimation is very hard.
A lot of people say, "Oh, engineers are terrible
at estimating software like deadlines."
It couldn't be further from the truth.
They're actually quite good,
given the complexity of software.
But the fact is, here,
that you really can't really say that, "Okay,
we know for sure that from one estimation,
from one engineer, that this thing
is gonna be done on this date."
So how do we get around that?
The way we accurately, or at least semi-accurately
estimate software is by figuring out
what is called a velocity.
So this goes directly
into what we were talking about with sprints.
Now I'm not showing you this
inside a project management software
because the way that velocities and all of this stuff works
in different project management softwares,
it differs from software to software.
So instead, I'm gonna explain the concept to you
so that you more clearly understand the theory behind this.
So let's say we have a sprint
and we are doing five things in this sprint.
We're doing five user stories that are a part of an epic.
What happens is, before we start a sprint,
we do something called a sprint planning meeting
or a scoping meeting, and we ask the engineers,
"How long is this gonna take for this thing and this thing?"
And we ask a few of them, not just one.
We ask a couple engineers on the team.
And they come to some conclusion, they say,
"It's gonna take this amount of time."
The trouble is if we ask them how long it's gonna take,
it's still a little bit inaccurate.
So the trick is we say, "How hard is it to do this?"
And the way we measure
or the way we quantify how hard something is
is through numbers.
And these are called story points.
So each story has some number assigned to it
by an engineer or a couple engineers
and they represent these story points,
they represent the difficulty.
Now, some teams and some companies
use different scales for story points.
You could have a scale like one, two, three, four, five,
where five is the hardest and one is the easiest.
Or you could have like a Fibonacci sequence,
where it's like one, two and three,
all the way up to like 21.
You could even have like one through 100.
It doesn't matter which scale you use.
What matters is that you're consistent with these scales,
so you're always using the same scale
and all of the engineers understand that,
okay, a five means super, super hard
and a one means very easy.
So what you do here is you estimate,
you give all of these things in your sprint a story,
an amount of story points, basically,
and then your sprint has what is called
like the total story points for that sprint.
Okay, so at the end of the sprint,
we see how many things we actually did get done,
how many story points were the developers
able to actually complete.
So if we had five items and we only got three done,
but those things had to combine story point value
of, let's say, 15, because they were,
there was only three things we did, but they were very hard,
so it was five points each,
and we're using the one-to-five scale,
then what we have at the end of the sprint
is what's called a velocity.
And that velocity now is 15.
It's the number of story points we were able to accomplish
in a one period of sprint,
like a one two-week sprint period of time.
All right, so now you're wondering like,
"Okay, well, how does that help me?
Does that mean that I can do 15 points in the next sprint?"
Well kind of, but I'll tell you how we do it
even more accurately.
What we do is this process over many, many sprints.
So back to the analogy of the mechanic, that first mechanic,
he was able to make a accurate estimation
because he had worked on like 100 or 1,000
of these exact types of projects before.
Well, if we take our sprint velocity from one sprint
and then we go through, let's say,
five more sprints in the future, we take those velocities,
we take all these velocities and we average them out,
then you have like a, basically, a roundabout way
of seeing, on average, how much work can you get done
over a particular period of time.
So you have an average sprint velocity
of, let's say, like 12 or 16.
And then what you can do is say, "All right,
in the future, we wanna do this thing
and we talked to the engineers
and they think it's this many story points
in order to do these things."
Well, we can extrapolate out
and say that according to our past average velocity,
this is gonna take us one month or two months.
And in the end, this ends up being pretty accurate.
Not 100% accurate, but it's the most accurate you can get
for software development.
One more thing to mention here is about that scoping
and that estimation from the engineers.
Usually this happens earlier, before you start a project,
and we like to do it before we start a sprint
in either a sprint planning session,
or even in the middle of the previous sprint,
we'll talk about what's coming up in the sprint after that
and we will have the engineers
and the engineering manager talk about, okay,
how many story points
are each one of these tickets and user stories?
All right, so that's it.
That is really engineering software estimation
in a nutshell, and now you've learned about velocity.
And this, again, is why Scrum is pretty useful,
because on Kanban, it's a little bit more difficult
to predict this sort of stuff
'cause you don't timebox your work like we mentioned before.
That's why Scrum basically has these timeboxes
so that we can say, "Okay, over a period of time,
we're able to get this amount of work done,"
and it contributes to accuracy in the long term.
All right, I'll see you guys in the next lecture.

--- Roadmapping ---

-: Hey, everyone, what's up?
Now we're going to talk about roadmapping.
Okay, I'm sorry in advance,
but I'm not going to actually show you
a real life roadmap right now,
and there's a good reason behind it.
This is because every company you go to,
every single company out there does roadmapping differently.
Furthermore, roadmaps are always,
if not mostly always, just inaccurate.
So we know about how Agile works,
so from what we know there,
can we think about why roadmaps are inaccurate?
Because if you're doing things in an agile fashion,
do you think you're going to be able to predict
three to four months out
what we're gonna be doing at that point?
The whole purpose of Agile is to say
that we're gonna try some stuff
right around this period of time,
this is what's coming next for sure
because it's a big user problem
and we're gonna try to solve it,
but we may solve it now with this initiative
or maybe we don't, and we get rid of that,
we do something else to solve that.
So these things can shift around.
So if you ever see roadmaps that say
in quarter one we're doing this,
in quarter two we're doing this,
in quarter three, this is what we're doing,
it's okay to have those things as a general guide
in terms of what might be coming in what parts of the year,
the first half, the second half of the year,
as a general guide.
But it's not going to be accurate
down to the date that you say it is.
And if it is, then you are not being agile.
So why do you ever see roadmaps that are like,
in Q1, we're doing this, in Q2, we're doing this,
in Q3, we're doing this.
It's because, well, for a couple reasons.
One, executives and other departments and investors,
they like to see these sorts of things.
But the good ones will realize that stuff
that's like three quarters out there
is not gonna be accurate if you're being agile.
It could be that it takes us a whole quarter
to figure out one problem through
a bunch of different user tests and solutions,
and it moves stuff back.
Or it could be that something becomes a non problem.
Maybe we were gonna build something to compete
with another company and that company goes away
or they go bankrupt.
Oh, okay, now we don't have to do that anymore.
The second reason you sometimes see these roadmaps
that are Q1, Q2, Q3, that sort of thing,
is because sometimes,
and especially in business to business companies,
you actually are going to be
against an actual real world deadline.
So large companies will do this a lot
because they have investors that say
that they have to have a certain thing,
a certain functionality,
to compete with somebody done by a certain date.
Or maybe you are at a software as a service company
and your sales people sell a new feature
that you haven't built yet to a customer.
And the customer's like, "We need this by February."
So at that point, you can put something like that
on a time-based roadmap and you gotta stick to it.
You gotta figure out how you can do it before that time.
But I just wanna let you know that
these types of a roadmaps are generally inaccurate,
but it's okay to still look at them.
Just keep in mind that they're inaccurate.
So what's the alternative?
What do we do instead?
Well, what do a lot of product managers do,
and a lot of just product development teams do out there,
is they just basically sort things into kind of priorities.
Here's what we're doing now.
They'll have like a column, and then, okay, this is now,
this is what we're doing immediately,
in the next few weeks, the next month.
And then they have another column that's like midterm.
So here's the stuff we're gonna do after that.
And then they'll have another bucket
that's called long term.
And this is stuff that we want to get to eventually
but it's not a huge priority right now.
So those three columns, the near term, midterm, long term,
are usually pretty helpful because
intentionally it doesn't say any particular dates on there
and it keeps everyone in line
by not expecting things by a certain date.
This three bucket model is something
you're gonna find a lot at consumer tech companies,
especially ones that have the luxury of building products
that, well, they don't really have any deadlines,
like Google and Facebook, and even like Twitter.
They're not really having any financial trouble,
so they can really take as long
or as little time as they want to do something.
They don't really have to put it into a certain quarter,
a certain date, or a certain month.
So you'll see a lot of these things
at the really big money, high tech companies.
So that's what I want to mention about roadmapping.
Don't worry, we're gonna put plenty of resource guides
and articles to read about roadmapping,
because you do need to understand
the ins and outs around it.
But those are the two major things about roadmapping.
One, the quarterly or monthly roadmaps are okay
to make and show as long as you are
on the same page as everyone else,
and you're telling people like,
"Look, this stuff may change."
And then two, the more appropriate way
or the more product management or lean way or agile way
is to do sort of a near term, midterm, and long term bucket.
All right, everyone, I'll catch you in the next lecture.
(upbeat music)

--- Prioritization ---

-: Hey everybody, what is up?
So we know already about epics and epic spec sheets
and we know about user stories.
So how does all this stuff get prioritized?
As a product manager, like we've already talked about,
prioritizing things is a major part of your role.
But here's the thing.
You don't just prioritize user stories
like a lot of people would have you believe.
You're in charge of prioritizing things
all the way from the user stories,
up to bigger things like epics,
all the way to even you can help marketing prioritize,
marketing and branding campaigns
based on product launches.
There's a whole bunch of stuff you got to consider
and it's more than just the value
of that particular thing that helps you prioritize it,
because sometimes you're working in companies
with other teams and different technologies
and other times the competitors will do something.
All of these things have a big effect on how you prioritize.
That being said, I want to talk about three quick methods.
They're very basic academic methods
that a lot of people know about
in the product management world
to prioritize either user stories or epics
or just initiatives that you're doing.
The first thing I want to mention is
there's something called assumption testing,
prioritizing by the assumptions.
The goal here is to pretty much de-risk what you're doing
by saying, Okay, this epic or this story, this user story,
we're assuming a few things here.
We've tried to remove the risky assumptions
through user studies and tests and data
and that sort of thing, but you can't remove them all.
So what are the remaining assumptions
for any given epic or story
and how big is the assumption that you're making?
Or if you're making a few assumptions,
let's see what the biggest assumption is.
What you do here is you just take that
biggest, riskiest assumption and you assign it a value
from like 1 to 5, or 1 to 10.
And you say that 10 is really, really assuming something
as quite risky.
Then you take a score called an important score
and you also score it on the importance of doing that thing
or the impact you think it's going to make.
You just add these two values together
and then you sort based on that.
So you do that for everything.
And you just sort based on that.
This works particularly well on smaller stories
inside of a bigger epic you're doing
because what you're doing basically is saying,
"All right if we're completely wrong about this one thing,
we want to try it first."
We can't get any more data.
We can't figure out how wrong we are until we do it.
So we're going to try it first
to know if we're right or wrong.
and might get us some more information
on the next things we were thinking about doing.
All right. The second method is called the buck method.
This is the business benefits, the user benefits,
and then the cost.
Basically, you want to come up with a value
from like 1 to 5, or 1 to 10 for each of these.
Score them appropriately.
Add up these scores.
And then you basically take the benefits part,
the business benefits and user benefits,
subtract the cost score from the sum of those
and you get a final score.
And then you prioritize all of your stuff
based on those final scores
with the highest being up at the top.
There is a problem with this though
and that is that it's pretty challenging
to accurately like score things based on these sometimes.
That sometimes there's just not enough data available
to make an accurate number out of it, right?
So there's one last method I want to talk about.
And this one's quite common called the Moscow Method.
It's the M-O-S-C-O-W.
You might have seen it spelled like that.
This stands for must, could, should, and would.
Basically, take everything you've got,
everything you intend to do.
All these stories or epics, and you just say,
"Okay we're going to imagine
we're not going to do any of these.
What is the worst thing that happens?"
Like what's going to happen?
We do none of this.
So from there you find out things that, okay,
we absolutely cannot live without building this
for a number of reasons,
and you can call those things the musts.
Then you go over all of the other ones and you just say,
"Is this something that we should have or is it a must?
Or is it something we could do
or something that we would do if we got the opportunity?"
This is really not science.
It's just going through things
and then thinking very deeply about each one and saying,
"Is this something we absolutely must have?"
Or things are going to get really bad
either with the business in terms of revenue or survival
and that kind of thing.
Last thing to mention about that Moscow method is that
if you have something that is a must have,
you can obviously not have that
depend on you doing something else
that you haven't done yet.
So if there's one feature
that depends on another feature being there
and that first feature is a must,
well then it makes sense that the other feature also
must be a must have.
All right, so that's it for those three methods.
We've got Buck, we've got assumption testing
and we've got the Moscow method.
Those are useful, but they're not going to be applicable
to everything you're prioritizing as a product manager,
because like I said, there's all sorts of crazy things
happening out there in the market.
There's companies that go bankrupt
and companies that get acquired.
And then you've got other teams
that are working on things that you didn't know about.
Or maybe there's a new technology available
all of a sudden that allows you to do something.
All of these things affect priorities everywhere
in the business, not just on small user stories or epics,
but on the direction and the vision and the direction
that the entire product team and the entire product team
all over the company heads towards.
Keep these methods in mind, but just remember
they're not the only thing you can use to prioritize things.
You can also think for yourself
and go by your instinct with the data you got.
I'll make one last note by the way, and say that
some of the biggest successes out there in terms of products
were not decided on some sort of fancy,
logical, quantitative decision,
but they come from companies
that engender a risk taking attitude
or have structures in place
to let the employees take some risk.
If you work at a company that is not going to go bankrupt
if you screw up a little bit,
work with your manager, and your bosses,
and the CEO and the executives,
and just think about ways
that you could be a little bit more creative with your team
or even with some of the other teams
to come out with ideas for products
that have never been created before.
Go a step further.
It's okay to do that,
but the main goal is not to bankrupt your company
by screwing up on a really important feature.
All right, everybody. See you in the next lecture.

--- Section 10: Review & Recap ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- General Communication Skills ---

-: Hey, what's up?
This section is an important one.
This is all about working with people and stakeholders.
It's communication skills and that sort of thing.
So let's get started.
By far, one of the most important skills to master
as a product manager is communication.
And you already know why.
Because being a communication hub
is one of the biggest parts of our job.
Communication happens in a lot of different channels,
so let's talk about a few here.
So first, we've got meetings.
This is among the most important areas
a product manager needs to be a great communicator in,
just these company and one to one meetings.
So much of what affects our product occurs in meetings
and knowing just how to take advantage
of the face to face and internet meetings
is a key portion of the product management job.
We also have to learn how to make sure
that activities that come from meetings are followed up on.
If you send a recap email or notes after a meeting
and you ensure everything gets followed up on
from all the people in the meeting,
you're gonna score major points as a product manager.
Number two, conference calls,
and this includes video meetings as well.
If you've got offices all around the world
these are gonna be very frequent.
Communicating here very well is dependent on the intonation
and the clarity of your verbal message.
Ensure that people are following along with you.
And if you have any resources,
or you're sharing some slide decks or stats,
make sure there's links to all of that in the meeting invite
or in an email that's associated with the meeting.
All right, number three, emails.
This is gonna be the bulk of communication
as a product manager, your primary method.
Ensure that what you're writing is clear, it's concise,
and you have links to all of the data and resources
that you refer to in the email.
Number five, informal meetings, like lunch meetings.
These are casual environments.
It can be great for connecting, getting feedback, ideas,
and working to build support.
Don't underestimate the power
of having lunch with a coworker
and to tell them about what you're working on
and get their input.
So in general,
there's a lot of ways we communicate as a product manager,
but to become a truly stellar product manager,
you must learn the art of communicating differently
with different types of people.
There's an old saying that goes six different audiences,
six different slide decks.
We're gonna talk more about that next.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
(upbeat electronic music)

--- Working with Engineers ---

-: Hey there. Good to see you again.
Let's get into the details
on how to communicate with different types of people
and we'll start first with engineers.
So engineers are lovers of detail.
When talking to them, emailing them, or anything else,
be very detailed about the thing you're describing.
This is because engineers are always thinking
about software and how what you're saying may
or may not work in a technical sense.
The clearer you are here, the better.
I can't tell you how many times early in my career
I was not detailed enough in my talks with engineers
or while sending them feature specifications.
In order to develop efficiently,
they need to know things that other people don't.
Things like what happens when the screen
is displayed in another language?
What is the error state read
when something goes wrong on this page?
What happens when there's no data to see on this page?
This is often referred to as an empty state.
As time goes on, you'll get better at predicting
what types of information the engineers need from you.
So now I'm going to list off some miscellaneous tips
for working with engineers as a product manager.
Number one, if something goes wrong, it's your fault.
This is not just being nice, this is the truth.
You're responsible for the success of the product.
If something goes wrong
or an engineer develops something incorrectly
because you gave them the wrong specs,
that is your fault, not theirs.
Number two, when you're pitching a feature,
be prepared and have really good idea
of where are the features going to go in the future.
When we do Agile development, we think of a feature
and we think about how it's going to look down the road
in an ideal state,
but also what the minimum viable product will be.
Telling developers, where you think
something's going to go down the road
is going to help them plan out
how we're going to do this technically in the future.
And that matters a lot.
Number three, when possible, you should do the work upfront
on things like checking commit logs
or looking up data before you ask engineers to do it.
Trying yourself before you ask for someone else's time
is a big sign of respect.
And developers like to know
that they aren't the only ones doing the work.
This will also score you major points.
Number four, watch out for tech debt.
So what is tech debt?
It's a term we use to describe something
in the code or technology
which is going to have to be dealt with later
as the result of not doing something correctly
the first time.
Let me give you an example here.
If we're building a new feature that requires a database,
maybe we learn that one way to save time
is to utilize a database that already exists.
However, if the feature becomes very popular
and it needs more space,
then eventually it needs its own database.
This impending work is what we call tech debt.
We're going to have to do it at some point.
Engineers hate tech debt
because they're the ones that have to deal with it.
Be cognizant of this and trust their judgment
on the right way to do things first.
You'll maybe find that a lot of them
want to do something scaled out the first time
to make sure we don't have to come back
and deal with it later
which will stop us from developing features at that point.
Lastly, this is a big one.
Do not treat engineers like an agency.
What I mean by this is don't design
and come up with all of the concepts yourself
or with your designer
and then just hand the completed requirements
to the engineers to code.
Always give engineers an opportunity
to provide you with feedback and product ideas.
Just because they spend their days coding
doesn't mean that they don't have any good ideas
or opinions of their own on the product.
The way I give them the opportunity to provide feedback
is actively involving them with day-to-day discussion.
But also during our planning meetings,
I make it a point to have a part
where we tell the engineers what we think is coming up next
and we give them the opportunity to tell us
what they think about that from the product perspective,
not even the engineering perspective,
but is this a good idea?
Would users use this?
It's very important that you bring them in
on these discussions.
That is one of the best tips I can give you
for working with engineers.
Very important, and engineers will respect to a lot more.
All right, so now you've got a good handle
on how to interact and communicate with engineers.
Let's go onto the next lecture
and talk a little bit about designers.
See you there.
(cheerful music)

--- Working with Designers ---

-: Hey, everyone, so now we have a really good idea
of how to work and communicate with engineers.
Let's talk about designers.
Designers, just like developers, often have certain ways
of working that you should be aware of.
Here are some tips on working with them.
Number one, designers are very creative
and you want them to take a lot of creative freedom
in the work that they do.
You want them to feel free to really stretch the limits
of their imagination.
Because of this, it's really important
that you're clear about any limitations.
Let's say, for instance, that we're designing
a new profile page for users and the designer wants
to put in some data that we don't have accessible
at the moment from the database,
and it would take a lot of work to get.
It's important that we tell them about this early,
because one slight change could change their entire design.
Keep this in mind.
Number two, like developers,
you should not be treating designers as an agency
or someone who just makes things pretty.
This is a big mistake I see tons of product managers make.
90% of the time, designers are going to know much more
about user interactions than you.
Not only that, but it's their entire job
to make sure that what they are making fits well
within the other areas of the product
and the other designers
and the stuff that they're doing as well.
Always provide designers ample opportunity
to give you feedback on the core of the idea
or the product that you're working on,
and I mean from the very product and idea perspective,
not just the wire framing and design part.
Number three, you and your designer
should function as a team.
Again, this means that you should be giving them
the opportunity to tell you their opinion
on the product in the future,
but it also means that you should be giving them data,
showing them user feedback,
and not just saying that this is a thing we're developing
or building because I said so.
That's really bad.
You need to basically be showing them
the reasons that you came up with this
being the thing that we're doing next.
Number four, don't ever tell the designer what to do.
Remember, as a PM, you're responsible for the what
and the why, but not the how.
If you dislike something in particular
about the work, feel free to highlight it in broad terms,
but don't tell them what needs to be changed.
For instance, if you think that something is confusing
about their design, remind them that it's important
that the interface is as clear as possible.
Maybe user research shows
that the least technologically adept people
are a big part of our user base, for instance.
At the end of the day, you have the final say
on the product you release,
but you should never ever have to exercise that power.
Okay, number five, and the last one here.
This is one of the best tips I can offer
for working with designers,
and it's to always talk about user problems first
and solutions second.
In other words, don't say to them
that a user should be able to send photos
in a message to another user,
because then you're just describing the solution.
Instead, talk about the fact that the problem
that users can't express themselves
to one another with photos or media in a message
is the real issue.
You would be really surprised at how helpful
this technique is in finding the best solutions
to actual user problems
and designers really appreciate this approach.
Okay, so now that we've got a good idea
of engineers and designers,
let's talk in the next lecture
about communicating with executives and other stakeholders.
(energizing music)

--- Working with Executives and Others ---

-: Hey there.
So we've learned already
about how to communicate with engineers and designers,
but how about the rest of the groups
like let's say executives, sales, legal, and marketing?
Well, let's talk about executives first
and then we'll do a few tips
on communicating with the other types of stakeholders.
In my early days of being a product manager,
I always struggled communicating with executives.
It was really tough.
I would send them really big emails with tons of detail
and they would almost never get back to me.
Later, I found out that the secret
to communicating with executives is being brief.
Executives are the busiest people at the company
so sending them compact
but meaningful messages shows that you value their time.
So instead of writing two paragraphs,
write two bullet points.
But Cole, you say,
I won't be able to give them enough information
in two bullet points.
That's right,
and they don't need all the information in one email.
If they want more data or information from you,
they know who to ask, you.
Secondly, when talking to executives and other roles
like sales, always speak in terms of business effect.
By this, I mean, don't tell them
that the user will be able to do a certain thing
in your product more frequently,
but tell them about what it means.
Does it mean more or less revenue?
Does it mean a change in a specific company metric?
If so, tell them that.
Thirdly, communicate in a style that they like best.
Some executives don't like email
as it consumes so much time for them
and maybe even their assistant reads it for them.
In this case, a better approach
might be to give them a really quick update in the hallway
or at lunch or at your next meeting.
Okay, so here's another couple tips for not only executives
but all sorts of stakeholders in general.
Number one, it pays off to talk to people on each team
as much as possible.
Whenever you get a chance, hold a meeting,
take them to lunch, or just finding excuse to talk to people
from different teams like marketing or sales.
Number two, ensure that other teams and people
understand that you know the user base, the technology
and the business very well.
This makes them much more confident
about the decisions you are making in the product.
Number three, update them on the latest developments
as frequently as possible,
but make it clear whether or not they should be replying
or if you just meant to send them an update.
One really good way to do this
is if you have an internal company blog or wiki,
you can just post things there
and they can read it if they want to.
But the important thing here
is to be communicating frequently.
Number four, whenever you're updating outside stakeholders
on progress or the completion of a feature,
be sure to tell 'em
about the reason the solution is the way it is.
Tell them a story about the other options you considered
and why maybe those ones did not turn out to be ideal.
So tell them that story about how you got to the product
or solution that ended up being the one that you built.
All right, everyone.
With those tips, you are really well armed
to communicate effectively
with a broad range of stakeholders.
This puts you way ahead in the game,
so be sure to keep this section in mind
and frequently come back if you need to.
It's gonna take a little bit of time
to get this like really ingrained in your head,
but you'll learn over time.
I will see you all in the next lecture.
(soft music)

--- Section 11: Review & Recap ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Why Learn Technology? ---

(bright music)
-: Hey everyone. What is up?
This is one of the most
universally useful sections of the course.
We're gonna learn about the common technologies and terms
used in most software companies today
but that you're gonna hear a lot in your day-to-day life
as a product manager.
A large number of product managers
start out as engineers first
or have some sort of technical background
like computer science.
However, you don't absolutely need to be
an X engineer to become a product manager.
You can come from all sorts of backgrounds.
You don't even need to know how to code,
but you do need to understand
how the most common technologies work.
In other words, you don't need to be an engineer
but you need to know how to speak like one.
All right. So why should you learn about technology?
Well, having a foundational understanding of technology
behind the products that you're building,
helps you out in three really big ways.
Number one, it gives you an understanding
of what can be realistically built.
You won't have to ask engineers what is possible
every time you talk about solutions or features for users
or whatever other departments ask you technical questions,
you don't have to go bother engineers and say,
oh, yeah, I'll check with the engineers on that one.
Number two, it helps you build a great relationship
with engineers.
If you're leading a product team
with a group of smart engineers, they want to know
that the person making the product decisions
has both a respect for the work they do
and knowledge of how it works.
Being technically incompetent
and unwilling to learn is a really easy and fast way
to losing respect from your engineers and your team.
All right. So, number three.
Knowing about technology, helps you understand the impact
of the decisions that you're making.
Every decision you make about the product
has a long lasting technical implication.
If you build a product that needs a new database
or a feature that needs a new database,
then that means that some engineer
has to maintain that database
and they have to build it in the first place.
If you later decide as a product team
with everyone else to get rid of that feature,
then guess who's gonna have to get rid of that database
and figure out all the stuff around
what happens when you remove it from the system?
Does it affect anything else?
Obviously, the engineers have to do that.
So, this creates a lot of work for the engineers.
That's why it's important to ahead of time
understand technology
so that when you're thinking about features
and product decisions,
you know in the back of your head,
okay, what type of work
is this going to make the engineers do?
And then what is the risk here
if we remove this in the future?
Anyways, I'm really excited to talk about this section.
This is one of my most favorite sections of the course
and this being technically adapt
and familiar with technology has been,
I would say, by far one of the biggest benefits
to my career as a product manager.
All right. Let's get started.
I'll see all in the next lecture.

--- "The Cloud", Servers, Clients, and the Inner Workings of the Internet ---

-: What's up everybody?
We're gonna start by talking about the very basics
and this is the internet.
I know that seems silly, but you gotta understand
how the internet works on a technical level to
understand what we're gonna talk about
in the future lectures.
We're also gonna talk about the cloud
and what does that mean
and then also we're gonna talk about what a tech stack is.
All right, so what is cloud computing?
(sighs) Buzz words?
Look, there's this really funny video
of Larry Ellison online.
Take a look.
-: I mean, the guys say, "Oh, it's in the cloud."
Well, what is that?
Then you say, "Are we dead?"
But yeah, we're dead.
If there's no hardware
or software in the cloud, we are so screwed.
But it's not water vapor.
All it is is a computer attached to a network.
What are you talking about?
I mean, what do you think?
What do you think Google runs on?
-: (man offscreen) I'll ask you.
-: They run on water vapor.
I mean cloud, they have, it's databases.
-: (man off screen) How about the next question?
-: and operating systems and memory
and microprocessors and the internet.
-: So the context around that is
that Larry Ellison is a billionaire.
He started Oracle, which is a database company
and he started it back in the day when databases
and servers were physically on the premises
of companies that'd actually buy one
and put it in your office
in order to have like a website and that sort of thing.
The question was about,
"Oh everything's moving to the cloud, Larry,
do you think your business is in danger?"
And that's where you saw the rant.
He's just like, "What a ridiculous question.
the cloud is just the internet."
Basically, he's just saying like,
"Look, you just put servers on the internet,
you make them accessible through the internet,
and there's no problem."
So anyways, that's pretty funny.
But what you gotta know here is that the cloud
is a buzzword, is was created by some marketing pros.
It's just the internet.
All right, so speaking of the internet, how does it work?
Well, okay, first of all, how the internet
works is a really big topic that includes a lot
of weird things like packets and internet service providers
and it would take me a long time to explain that to you.
So we're just gonna talk about the basics here.
So the internet consists of a big network.
You can just think of it
as one really long cord that connects everything.
On this network, there's two primary types
of computers; servers, and clients.
A server is something that stores data
in a database and sends it to the clients.
A client is just a fancy term
for something that people use to access these servers
and that data across the internet.
This would be things like your laptop.
You're probably watching this
on a laptop right now, or even a phone.
Maybe you're watching this on a phone.
And if you're not watching this on a laptop or phone...
A client can also be other internet connected devices
like printers or Apple TV or geez,
everything these days is like internet enabled,
internet of things like,
refrigerators connected to the internet.
Well, your refrigerator's not a server.
If you have an internet connected fridge
it's a client cause it's accessing data from somewhere else.
So websites and services all have servers
behind them that you've gotta access to use them.
That makes sense right?
Now, each server has an address,
like the address of your apartment or house.
It's a long and complex number.
It's good for machines to read
but hard for humans to remember.
This number is called an IP address
and if you've ever seen one, it's like 1 9 2 dot
1 6 8 dot something, something, something, something.
You're not gonna remember that if you want to
access like a website.
All right, so to solve this
there's something called the domain named system or DNS
and that basically just translates simple names
into IP addresses and back again.
Human language to computer language and back.
This allows people to access services
like Google by typing in google.com instead
of whatever IP address Google has for their servers
which is probably, I don't know, pretty long.
All right, so when I go on my computer
and I go to google.com or any other website
my computer sends a request through my internet at home
then through my internet service provider
and they are all crap, right?
Am I right?
Am I right fricking, ugh, terrible, terrible companies.
Anyways, then it goes through the DNS
which translates my request for google.com
into the proper IP address for Google's servers.
Then Google sends the information I requested back
through that same path back from Google servers
through the Internets, and
through my crappy internet service provider,
back to my laptop or my internet of things connected fridge.
Sounds pretty simple, right?
Let's recap.
The cloud is a buzzword
it's a term for the internet and servers.
The internet itself is just a bunch
of connected computers and devices with some of them acting
as servers and the other ones acting as clients.
And humans use the clients to access the servers.
In between, there are some stuff in there
like the DNS that translates human speak
like google.com into computer speak,
the IP address and then back again
when it when the request comes back.
All right?
I will see all in the next lecture.

--- Understanding the Front End, Back End, and Tech Stacks ---

-: What's up?
You've probably heard of the terms
front end, back end, and tech stack before,
so let's demystify these real quick.
It's not hard.
It won't take us very long.
So we already talked about the internet and how it works.
We know that when I type in google.com,
my laptop or phone or smart internet fridge,
or whatever else's internet of things these days, yeah
it connects to the Google servers through the internet.
If I use a web browser like Google Chrome
and I go to google.com and do a search,
the web browser on my laptop asks Google
for the data I requested
and shows me the results that Google sends back.
Okay, in all of this, there's a couple things
going on here from the technology perspective
and I don't mean the internet, I mean the code.
Google is figuring out what I'm requesting from them.
Whatever I typed into the search bar,
they're getting that information from their database
and then when they send it back to my web browser
they're showing me the results.
Each of these levels has programming behind it
that is often referred to as front end,
back end, and application layer.
So look, front end is just a fancy term for
what the users see and interact with.
This is colors, text, and interactions
I see on the web page.
So there are programming languages that make up
the front end as most commonly used
for the front end, especially on the internet.
Things like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
We're not gonna go into those too much
but I'll give you a super brief primer.
HTML, you can think of like,
the structure and content of a website.
So it's the actual text.
CSS is a language that is used for
styling that text and that structure.
So, okay, this font should be this color and this big,
and this is how pictures should be stretched
across the page.
And then you've got JavaScript,
and that one is basically
in charge of the interactivity on the website.
So, okay, when I click this button,
it does this little animation, or when a user types this,
this happens over here before it goes to the servers.
That's what JavaScript is doing.
Anyways, those are the three that really
make up most web front ends.
All right?
So back end is a fancy term for information servers
and databases that are located somewhere else
in the back end.
So the technology that is used in the backend
is things like MySQL,
which is a database language combined with
technology that hosts that database on the internet
like Amazon S3.
Amazon S3 is basically servers for rent,
basically that Amazon hosts,
and anyone can really just go in and sort of
rent a server from Amazon on the internet.
And this has, by the way, contributed to how
quickly internet businesses have been able to grow
or test things without, you know, spending too much money
because in the old days you used to have to
buy that server yourself, install it,
and put code on it and all this sort of thing.
Now you just go to like Amazon AWS, Amazon Web Services,
and you just type in, okay,
I want an S3 server on the internet.
I can put my code on it and I can run a website
without actually ever owning a server myself.
Anyways, you might have heard that first term
I mentioned SQL, I mentioned mySQL,
but it's spelled M Y S Q L
and the term SQL is also talked about a lot
as a query language.
That's because SQL itself is a query language.
So if you hear SQL or MySQL
they could be talking about a query language.
This is just a way that we can structure a request
to a MySQL database to get information back.
By that I mean, quite literally, a lot of people
at tech companies know how to query SQL.
They will say,
"Hmm, I wonder how many users we have as of today."
And they'll just enter in a SQL query
and something like select all from
the user database, count number of users,
and that will just spit out a number and it says,
"Well here's all the users in the database."
It's relatively simple to learn
so I do recommend you check it out.
Okay, so what if there's five different screens
on an app that all pulled data from one database?
How does the front end know where to get that data?
Or what if it needs to do some sort of
logic or calculation on it?
This is where the application layer comes in.
So the application layer is just a term for
some code or programming that does calculations
to the data from the front end or the back end
and it sends it to the right place.
You can think of it as being
in between the front end and the back end,
but in reality you just have
the front end and the back end
but the application layer is the code
and it usually lives on the front end or the back end
but it's not always consistent, you know, where it lives.
All of this stuff really just has to do with
how the product or the app is programmed, right?
Let's go a little bit deeper into that.
If I'm using a website like Amazon and I do a search
for products from highest price to lowest price,
the application layer takes my search,
it talks to the database,
it gets the items I'm interested in from the database,
and then sorts them in the correct order
for the front end to display to me in my web browser.
The web browser is interpreting the front end code
that gets generated and showing it to me.
So there's a lot of programming languages out there
and there's a lot of 'em that are used for
this application layer.
Some examples though are things like Ruby, Python, or PHP.
You've probably heard of Ruby by the way
because you might have heard the the phrase Ruby Unrails.
Well, that's not the same as Ruby,
but Rails is a framework for Ruby.
Anyways, I'm not gonna talk about frameworks right now
but we will talk about 'em.
I just wanted you to know
that if you've heard it, that's why.
Okay, so we've got a good overview of a front end,
the back end, and the middle part, or the the calculations,
which is called the application layer.
So what is a tech stack?
All right, a tech stack is just a way of saying
the programming languages or technology
that make up a website or app
from the front end all the way to the back end.
Some products use different databases
or languages to program the product
and all the stuff that happens there than others
because some languages have advantages over others
for certain types of work or services.
If you applied this whole tech stack concept to cars
it would basically be the same as describing
which type of engine, tires, transmission,
and what kind of metal your car is built out of.
It's basically the same concept.
All right, easy stuff.
But one thing I want to mention lastly here is that
all of the stuff I've been talking about
is the same with mobile devices and mobile apps
except that sometimes instead of a web browser
on a mobile phone, like an iPhone or an Android,
you're using a native mobile app.
And instead of those native mobile apps using HTML
and CSS and JavaScript in a web browser,
the app likely uses a language like Swift, or-
yeah, Swift is for iPhones, or Java for Android.
So those in the case of mobile,
serve as the front ends for mobile devices.
All right, quick recap here.
The front end is what users see and interact with,
with buttons, text, and colors.
The back end holds all the information
in a database on the Internets,
and somewhere in between there's some code
that basically does some calculations
and sends things back and forth to the right places.
And this is called the application layer.
All right.
The next logical topic to talk about is APIs
and you're gonna be using a lot of that
in product management.
You'll hear it all the time.
So let's get to it.
I'll see you in the next lecture.

--- Understanding APIs - Application Programming Interfaces ---

-: Hello my friends.
So welcome back and we're gonna talk here about APIs.
Look, in your work as a product manager
and in many other roles in the technology industry,
you're gonna hear this term API a lot.
Usually you're gonna hear some engineers talking about it
and sometimes they'll be like,
"Oh, well, we can't do that
because the API doesn't allow us."
So let's demystify that.
What is an API?
API stands for Application Programming Interface.
The easiest way to explain it is
that it's the messenger that takes requests
and tells the system what you want to do.
Then it returns what you requested,
the information, back to you.
Well, let's make it even more simple.
Imagine you're at a restaurant
and you're looking at the menu,
and the kitchen has some delicious food,
probably some barbecue, if it were me,
and I'm like, I want that barbecue,
but I need a way to get that food from the kitchen
because they've gotta make it for me,
and then they've gotta send me the food,
so I gotta request it.
They gotta make it. They gotta send it.
And what I need in this case,
like the missing link here, is a waiter.
The waiter comes to me and says,
"Hello, how many pounds of barbecue would you like, Cole?"
And I'm like, "10 or 15 pounds."
And then he goes back to the kitchen
and he gets me 15 pounds of barbecue,
brings it back to my fat self.
So he's done all of this translating to kitchen language
and bringing me the food.
And that waiter is like an API.
(bell dings)
Also, in this case,
the kitchen was a database,
a database full of delicious barbecue, in our example.
Okay, so there's two types of APIs.
I know, it seems like it's getting more complex,
but I promise it's not that hard.
There's a public API and a private API.
Public APIs are provided by companies
to allow products or services
to get data from their system.
A great example of this would be
on a travel search website like kayak.com
where you can search for a flight
across different airlines for the cheapest price.
Kayak takes what you type in
about what dates you wanna travel,
and then using the public API of every single airline,
or at least most of 'em, it returns to you
the prices and availability for all of the trips.
That's because Kayak does not have the information
on all airlines at all times and all flights
but they contact the airlines' databases through the API.
They did this because the APIs for the airlines are public,
which means that they let anyone,
like a developer like Kayak and the engineers there
just dial in and get that data
and provide some services based on it.
Why? Because now they're making more money.
Because if Kayak does a good job of marketing,
people are gonna come there
and they're gonna search for flights
and they're gonna buy more stuff from the airlines.
So a lot of tech companies out there have public APIs
to encourage developers to build products
using their information.
Here, you can see a documentation page
for Twitter's public API.
All right, so what's a private API?
Well, these are APIs that are available only
to the developers inside of a company
to get information from different internal systems.
It's example time again.
At Facebook, there's probably a database
that holds the pictures,
and another database that holds the messages,
and there's probably a lot of databases
for a lot of different things at Facebook.
So if a developer on one team,
let's say this developer doesn't work
on the photos team or the pictures team,
but they want to code a new feature
and they need access to the pictures database
somewhere inside of Facebook servers,
then they will write what is called an API call
in their code, and they will write this API call
to what is called an API endpoint.
The database then sends back the pictures
that they requested.
By the way, this API endpoint is just a fancy way
of saying access window or something like that.
It's an address that allows developers
to get a certain type of data.
And sometimes the endpoints have limitations
to prevent problems.
Like maybe they'll say, okay, you can only
send 100 requests per minute
because if you go above that,
it's gonna overload our systems,
and things will crash and things blow up.
(computer exploding)
Anyways, yeah, don't worry about that.
I just wanted to let you know that that exists.
All right, I told you that was not very hard,
but we're gonna recap anyways.
Basically, APIs are just ways that developers
can write code to other systems and get data from them.
There are two major types of APIs,
public APIs and private APIs.
Public ones are available to anybody,
including you, if you're a programmer.
And then private APIs are available only to people
inside of that company, which means not you,
unless you work at that company.
All right, everyone.
I hope you're learning some stuff here.
I'm gonna see you in the next lecture.

--- Additional Technology ---

-: Hey everybody, what is up?
I wanted to take a moment to let you know what
I would recommend for you to look
into further for technology to really get
the most you can out of product management role
and really impress the people you're working
with, with your technology knowledge and just
the breadth of stuff you're able to understand.
So here's my recommendations.
(bouncy music)
You should really look into
some different programming languages and then the types
of frameworks that are available around those.
I already mentioned before how Ruby is different from
Ruby on Rails because Ruby on Rails is a framework for Ruby.
Really briefly on that, a framework is, well
you can think of it like speed dial for programmers.
So instead of me having to remember which numbers to type
for calling a friend, I could just hit a button
and speed dial them with one key press.
In a way, this is what frameworks do for programmers.
So imagine that you are going to use a language
like Ruby to make a website where people can log in
and you're going to store their login information
and their passwords and all of that stuff in a database.
This kind of thing has been done so many times
and there are so many good practices to do that,
that it's pretty safe to say that
if someone just did it really well one time
and just provided an easy way to kind of replicate it
that it would be a benefit.
This is exactly what frameworks do and in this case
if I wanted to do that, I could use Ruby on Rails
and use a few simple commands basically
and it's just gonna auto-generate a database
for me hosted somewhere
and it's gonna generate all I need to basically
have users be able to log in and you know
put in a password and all that sort of thing.
So frameworks are things that are structured
around programming languages.
It's like commonly done things
in programming that allow developers to work faster.
The more knowledgeable you are
about these different languages like PHP
or Ruby or Scala or Java, it's gonna help you.
You don't have to learn them, you just should look
up about them and see what they're best used for.
It's gonna help you out a ton.
And then if you understand the frameworks on top of that
it's gonna be really helpful.
Secondly, I already mentioned MySQL and SQL
or S Q L, where MySQL is the database technology
and S Q L is the query language
for querying those databases.
If I was gonna recommend you
one thing that you should really
really look into as a product manager
it's gonna be to learn how to query SQL databases.
Using SQL pretty proficiently.
Most companies are going to have SQL databases
or MySQL databases, it's gonna be huge
on your resume to be able to make a query
and get some data by yourself
without having to bother engineers or data science people.
So highly recommend looking into that.
Check out codeacademy.com
because they have a SQL course that is really good.
It will get you to understand the fundamentals
and it's gonna be super helpful.
The third thing I wanna say is
that if you're really serious about getting into data
and looking and analyzing data, which you should be
if you're a product manager, then I recommend you check
out some data parsing and analysis languages.
Some examples would be things like Python, and Python is
both a language that has been adapted to actually
run programs on different clients,
like the web or on your computer, but it's also a
what is called a scripting language, which means
that you can basically take a set of data
and use Python to script, or basically write out,
what you want to do with that data
and parse it out, or pull pieces of it out, and analyze it
and then send it to something like Excel
or some other type of visualization software for data.
This is gonna be super helpful.
It's definitely an advanced thing as a product manager
but if you really want to get into it
recommend checking out some scripting languages.
And I would probably start with Python, right?
So the fourth thing I'm gonna mention here is
that if you want to go even further
and you want to get more technical
than you should look at the different types
of databases out there or how databases work.
So there are some things
besides MySQL and there's different really categories
of databases that are things
like relational databases versus non-relational databases.
And all that means is basically it's just
the way that the databases store information.
And some of these databases are newer than others.
Some of them are older, but more proven.
Some of them are faster, but you know
have some things they're not so good at.
So if you want some extra learning, go check out, you know
the differences between relational
and non-relational databases or things like MongoDB
for instance versus MySQL and just get a good amount
of information and knowledge around that.
It's gonna help you out a ton when you're talking
to engineers and data scientists.
All right, so that's it for that part.
I just wanted to let you know what you could look into
if you're really interested in really, really
getting to be a really great technical product manager.
It's gonna help you out a lot when you're talking
with technical people in your company.
Got it? Good.
I'll see it in the next lecture.

--- Section 12: Review & Recap ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Getting Relevant Experience ---

-: Hey, everyone.
So, this is a section all about preparing for a job
in product management, in order to maximize your chances
at getting a job.
There's one big problem that's also kind of a benefit
about being a product manager.
The problem is that it's pretty hard to get the job at first
because it requires prior experience.
But on the positive side,
once you have that sort of experience
or you've done it at least once,
you have a lot of career security,
because everyone else has trouble getting that experience.
So, it's really easy to switch jobs
and get promoted and that sort of thing.
There's also just a low number
of really qualified product managers out there,
and the demand for them is really increasing lately.
Unlike programming and computer science,
there's no way to major in product management in college
and say that you have prior experience from that.
So, how can you best position yourself
to get the first associate product manager job
or junior product manager job?
What you really need to do is demonstrate
that you understand the concept and role
of a product manager thoroughly,
but just talking about product management
is not enough to get a job.
You need to have the experiences to point to and discuss
with people that are interviewing you.
All right, so where can we get these experiences?
Well, we can find them in two major places,
either in your current job or with a side project.
In this lecture, we're gonna talk
about finding relevant experience in your current job,
and then we'll talk about a side project.
Since what you do as a product manager is so broad
and we just do so many things,
I guarantee you that some sort of stuff you're doing
at your current job is related to product management.
In other words, you're probably already doing it,
and you just don't know.
Think about all of the stuff we've learned
in this course so far,
and then think about the things that you do
in your current job that involve these concepts.
I'll give you some examples here.
So, write down any experience
that you have with the following.
Number one, think about any time
you've had multiple things to do,
either by yourself or with a team,
and you have to prioritize what you do first.
You made the priority decision based on information,
and that's what we do all the time as PMs.
Number two, think about all the times you've talked
to any users of a product or a tool,
internally or externally.
If you work in marketing, for example,
then talking to the people you are marketing to
in focus groups or that sort of thing is very similar
to talking to the users of a product.
If you work in customer service,
then you're definitely talking to users of a product
on a regular basis.
Number three, think about any times you've given feedback
or reported bugs on the product of your company
or even another one.
Number four, if the company you're with now
has a product team, then recall all of the interactions
you've had with them and how you may have helped them
acquire data to make decisions
or gave them feedback on the product.
All right, number five, think about any times
you have worked on something at your job
with multiple other teams or groups of people.
Have you ever worked with the legal team,
the engineering team, sales, marketing, or customer service?
If you've helped teams communicate something between them,
this is very relevant to being a product manager.
The last thing I want you to consider
is any work you've done to improve
the efficiency of a process.
Product managers work a lot with different processes,
so any efficiency you have made better in your job
by finding more efficient ways to do things
or improving the way things are done,
from either stuff you do every day
or stuff you and your teammates do,
is gonna be very relevant to talk about.
So, after you've written all of these things down,
think very deeply about each one,
and then detail each one of them even more.
These experiences can be put on your resume
and then they can be talked about
during product management interviews.
One other thing you can do is email product managers
that you find online
and ask if you can ask them a few questions.
Use what you learn from them to inform
your job applications and interviews.
I recommend browsing for product managers in industries
you're interested in,
in places like, let's say, Product Hunt,
LinkedIn, and Twitter.
But if you can't think of anything related
in your current job to product management,
then doing a side project is gonna be the most helpful.
We're gonna talk about that in the next lecture.
All right, I'll see you there.
(energizing music)

--- Building a Portfolio with a Side Project ---

-: Hey, what's up?
Welcome back.
So as I mentioned,
the key to getting a product management job
is having some sort of relevant experience
to talk about and point to on your resume.
If you have no experience at your current job,
and just can't think of anything
you've done related to product management at all,
then a side project is the best option.
So if you've been following along
with this course,
especially to the sections that Evan has taught,
then you already have a really good idea
of how to do a side project
on a small product or feature.
What you need to do is document your experience
of coming up with ideas to solve user problems
through a product or feature,
and put it together somewhere
like a blog post on your own website,
a slide deck,
or you can actually make your own prototypes
really easily and put that online.
These projects can be very detailed
or really just high-level.
You can even take a product used daily,
and describe in writing or graphics
how you would change it
in order to solve user needs better.
This is a pretty common tactic
in the world of design actually.
You've probably seen a lot of designers
post their own like redesign versions
of popular websites or apps or product,
and a lot of designers get their jobs this way.
You can actually do the same,
but for product management,
and with features and that sort of thing.
But if you want to do a deep dive into the topic
of doing your own project,
I recommend two great resources.
Firstly, check out the other courses
that Evan has taught on coming up with ideas,
creating an MVP
or getting started as an entrepreneur.
These will set you up with everything you need.
Another option if you want to do
a step-by-step project
while also learning about product management,
I recommend you check out my friend,
Ellen Chisa's course called,
The Fundamentals of Product Management.
You can find a link on her website at
www.EllenChisa.com.
Ellen also writes some really good blog posts
on her experience as a product manager,
and she's got a lot.
So also be sure to check those out.
So to recap here,
doing a side project is a huge benefit.
If you don't have any
sort of relevant experience at all,
and can't think of anything in your current role
that qualifies as
product management style experience
in the least,
then you should start thinking about
doing a side project.
All right, in the next lecture,
we're gonna talk about some other things
you can do to really prep,
and increase your chances
of getting a job as a product manager.
I'll see you there.
(upbeat instrumental music)

--- Branding Yourself ---

-: Hey, what's up?
Welcome back.
The other thing that's gonna really help you out
immensely in getting a job
as a product manager
is having a good personal brand online.
What you want here is basically
an online record that demonstrates your knowledge
of product management and the skills required.
Building credibility before you walk
through the door to your interviews
is worth its weight in gold.
The best way to demonstrate credibility
is to have a website or a blog
where you talk about things related to
product management and have those projects
we talked about available to the public.
Recruiters will often look at
your social media profiles,
and website to understand
if you're qualified or not for the role.
Since there's not as much information out there
on product management
as compared to other topics,
it's actually pretty easy to stand out.
Here's a couple example topics
that you can consider writing about
to get started.
All right.
Number one, you could write about
why a particular product you use is poor,
and then how it could be improved.
This is actually a pretty common
interview question
that they'll ask you as a PM.
They'll say you know,
"What is a favorite product of yours,
and how could it be improved?"
Number two, you could say,
the top five mistakes you've made
in your current role and what you've learned.
Number three, you could read
some product management books,
which we will have in the resources,
some recommendations for those,
and then you could write some blog posts
about your reviews of those books,
and what you agree or disagree with.
Number four, you could write a post
on your thoughts on recent technology trends
or industry events,
and how you see them developing further
or changing the market, all right.
So besides a blog, it's also very helpful
to have a public social media account
like Twitter where you participate
in product discussions
or talk about relevant things
to product management.
I also recommend you go on Quora,
Quora.com and ask or answer questions
related to products and product strategy.
All right, so a quick recap.
One of the best things you can do
to make sure you have a great online brand
is to write or just have a public presence.
If you don't have a website or a blog,
you should make one.
You should start one.
You should start writing,
and you should include some topics
related to product management,
and product strategy in there.
Also make sure you have a publicly
available social media account like Twitter
where you talk about things
that are also on topic
with product management and UX design,
and user experience.
All right, I'll see you
in the next section where we'll be talking about
looking for product management jobs
once you feel that you are sufficiently prepared.
(upbeat instrumental music)

--- Section 13: Review & Recap ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Where to Look and What to Look For ---

-: Hey, guys, welcome back.
Once you've prepared to look for product management jobs,
and you've got that good online brand,
and you think you can point to some relevant experience,
you have to know where to go to look for the jobs
and really what you want to be looking for.
In this lecture, we're gonna talk about three things.
One, looking at your own company,
two, networking, and three, looking online.
Firstly, it's important to understand
that if you're really serious
about getting into product management,
then the best place, by far, that you can look for a job
is in your own company.
Trust me on that.
It's so much easier to move internally
than it is to get a new job as a product manager
with no previous experience.
If you already have a product management team
at your office, your company,
ask to shadow some product managers in meetings
to learn more about what they're working on.
What you should do here is demonstrate
that you're interested in helping them out,
and offer to do some work in your spare time for their team.
The goal here is to learn as much as you can.
If you don't have a product team already at your company,
then you can still start offering to do tasks and projects
that will add to your product manager resume,
things like prioritization of initiatives,
technical implementations, user interviews,
and research and that kind of thing.
Secondly, it's very common for people to get jobs
based off of references rather than just applying to them.
This is the case with every type of job,
but so much more so for product management.
But in order to get references,
you need to meet people in the product management industry.
For that, I recommend you go to websites like meetup.com
and look for product management
or product strategy meetups in your area.
You can go to these events.
You can talk to people that are product managers.
You can find out who's hiring and maybe even meet somebody
who would be willing to provide you a reference for a job
or tell you about an opening.
Outside of finding product management jobs
through networking, there's a few places
I recommend you look online.
Number one, go to angellist.com,
which has a big focus on Silicon Valley tech companies
and look for product management jobs.
Number two, go to Hacker News, and they have a,
it's a technology message board, basically,
and you can Google it or you can search on their site,
because they have a monthly thread called,
"Ask HN Who is Hiring?"
Just Google it and you'll find the threads
that I'm talking about.
They do this every month, and it's just full of openings
for product management positions.
The third place I would recommend
is do a search on Facebook for any local Facebook groups
around your city that involve any type of job,
but especially product or technology jobs.
These are really good to browse through
and something good to keep your eye on
in case some listings come up.
I've seen a lot of product jobs go through
these types of groups.
Number four is mailing lists,
and there are some good ones out there.
I recommend a mailing list by a guy named Ken Norton.
You can go to kennorton.com.
It's K-E-N-N-O-R-T-O-N,
and he's a really well-known product manager.
He has a great little newsletter,
but he always has job postings at the end of each email.
All right, so those are some tips on where to look
for your product management job
if you're looking to get one.
And in the next lecture,
I'm gonna give you a little bit more inside advice
on how to go about your product management job hunt.
I'll see you there.

--- Inside Advice on Your PM Job Hunt ---

-: Hey, everyone.
Before we move on to the actual resume,
and interview process,
I wanted to give you a couple
of sort of insider tips
on looking for a product management job.
These are kind of miscellaneous tips
that I just thought that I should tell you about,
and pay attention
because they will help you in the long run.
The first tip is for
any product management job opportunity,
you should make sure that the company,
that is looking to hire has a good understanding
of the product management role.
and can clearly illustrate
why they're hiring one.
I say this because
as an observer of the industry,
I've seen a lot of companies
that don't see the difference
between product and project management.
Sometimes these companies will end up
hiring somebody merely to keep engineers on task,
and if you can,
you want to avoid this
to maximize your experience
for actual product management.
The second tip I have for you is to do
a lot of research on the current product team
or product management leader at the company.
Find them on Twitter.
Look at their blogs.
Check out their job history on LinkedIn,
and see what you think
about the things that they say.
What you're looking for here
is someone that you think you can learn
a lot from that has had
product management experience before.
Sometimes someone will be named
director of product
at small growing companies,
but they'll have no product management experience
before that and this is something that trust me,
you really want to avoid.
On the other hand,
if you're interested in working
for a particular industry or company
down the road,
then working for somebody that has worked
in that industry in the past
is a great thing to know.
It's a great thing to be able to say,
"Oh, I'd like them to be my boss
so I can learn from them.
So pay attention to that."
All right so recap here.
Do extensive research on the people
that you'll be working with,
and use it to your advantage.
Also, make sure that the company
that's hiring you knows why they're hiring
a product manager so that you get a good role
at a good product team where you can learn a lot.
I'll see y'all in the next lecture.
We're gonna move into the actual resume,
and interview process.
Catch you there.
(upbeat instrumental music)

--- Section 14: Review & Recap ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Resumes ---

-: What's up everybody?
So this section is all about your resume
and interviewing as a product manager.
And this lecture is about your resume
and how we're going to optimize it
to have a better chance at getting a product management job.
So resumes in general, it's true,
not as important as they used to be,
but you still gotta have one, unfortunately,
and you need to make it the best you can
to optimize your chances for getting a job.
Especially in product management
because it's pretty hard to get a job as one.
If you don't have any prior product management experience,
what's important here is to frame the experience you do have
in a way that relates to getting that PM job.
So we're gonna talk about two ways
to optimize your resume here, and they're pretty simple.
All right, step one: If you haven't already,
go back and watch that lecture
on preparing for the PM role with relevant experience
and think through all of the times you've done something
at your current job, even if you're not a product manager,
because it's probably got some stuff in it
that does relate to product management.
Once you've done that, go through and edit the subtext
of each position you've held on your resume
and make it reflect that product management experience
that you've found using the exercise we did in that lecture.
So step two: Make sure that all of the descriptions
in your previous positions, and even the current one,
just make sure your whole resume is like this: quantitative.
All the examples you give on the things you did,
they need to be quantitative.
What I mean by that is we need to say,
instead of describing what your job was,
we need to say, "How did you do at your job?"
This is because as we know,
product management is all about improving metrics.
So what we're gonna try to do is change-
Instead of describing your job, we're gonna change it into
describing how you, in a quantitative way,
improved things at your job.
Here's an example: If you're a marketer,
instead of saying that you managed marketing campaigns,
say how many marketing campaigns you managed,
and how much revenue it generated for the company.
Or do something like "Increased number of
simultaneous campaigns managed at once by 20%
over the course of the year."
You just gotta make it quantitative.
So what we're gonna do now
is we're going to put some fake resumes on the screen.
All right, so this is totally fake. I made these up.
But it's for someone that works in marketing currently
and wants to go into product management.
So you can see the difference
between these two is that we've changed, first of all,
everything to be more quantitative
in terms of what were the things that we accomplished
and then we have also put in more experience
that's relevant to product management role,
rather than talking about stuff that's not relevant
to what product managers do on a day-to-day basis.
So I'll include these in the resources section,
along with some other guides,
on how to improve your resume in general,
but I really wanna just tell you about that.
Product managers all about those metrics
so make sure stuff is quantitative.
And secondly, product managers
do so much stuff that it's pretty easy to think of stuff
that you did that's related to product management,
like prioritization or communicating between departments.
Just make sure that's reflected in your resume
and even if you don't have prior product experience,
it's gonna give you a much better chance
at not being passed over by the recruiter
for an associate or junior product manager position.
All right everyone, I will see ya in the next lecture.
(upbeat music)

--- Interviewing for Product Management ---

-: All right, so you've got your resume optimized,
you've got your online brand perfected,
and you're going to interview with a company.
Congrats on getting that first interview.
In this lecture, we're gonna talk
about some tips to help you get
through the product management interview.
These interviews are tough.
And that's because it's not all cut and dry.
You gotta demonstrate some skills,
usually on a whiteboard, for talking through problems.
So what I'm gonna do
is give you three big tips
on how to nail these interviews.
The first two we're gonna talk about here
and then the most important one
has its own lecture coming up next.
All right, tip number one.
Use every interview to make the next one even better.
Each interview you do is gonna help you a lot
in making the next interview even better.
Whether it's another interview at the same company
or an interview at a different company,
you should pay very close attention
to the questions they ask you
for that product management role.
Then, think about whether or not you are able
to get a good answer to them or not.
For every question, take mental notes
or even physical notes if they let you.
When you go home, start researching those things
immediately.
If you didn't understand something,
you didn't have a good answer, go look it up.
So if you make it to the next round of interviews
for that company, then you have more relevant knowledge
to discuss.
Even if you don't get that job
and you are going to an interview at another company,
this is going to be super helpful
for prepping you for these types of questions
in the future.
You gotta be optimistic here.
These are tough interviews
but each failure is an increased chance
at the next opportunity
so that's how you should look at it.
Tip number two, ask them good questions.
The more research you do before they interview
about the company and the industry and the product,
the better.
You can't do enough, to be honest.
Most interviewers will give you a chance
to ask them questions at the end of the interview
so you should have some really good questions in mind.
Before you go into your first interview,
do that research on those latest initiatives
and industry trends and even what their competitors
are doing, what rounds of funding other people
have raised that are in the same industry.
Use this information to ask them thoughtful questions.
I'll give you an example here.
Let's say I'm interviewing
for a product management position at a messaging app
and they compete with WhatsApp,
which is a really popular messaging app
owned by Facebook.
I'd probably ask them questions
about how they tried to differentiate themselves
for the market and then what they think
the biggest obstacles for them
are in the next year.
If WhatsApp releases a feature in, you know,
a month before you do that interview
or any time in the last six months,
you need to say,
"Hey, what are your thoughts on that latest feature?
"Are you guys gonna try to compete with that or what?"
And this really just shows
that you're interested in their product,
you understand what's going on in this industry.
And I guarantee that if you ask good questions like this,
you're gonna stand out from the rest of the candidates.
All right, let's recap here.
Use every interview as an opportunity
to make the next one better.
Don't cheap out on this, you gotta do it.
And then two, ask insightful questions
at the end of your interview
that are relevant to the product management role,
the industry, and the product.
If you use these tips,
your interviews are gonna be really good
and you're gonna be way ahead of the competition.
You're gonna be even better off
if you watch the next lecture
'cause it's a really good tip.
(jolly music)

--- How to Answer Interview Questions the Right Way ---

-: Welcome back, everybody.
Like I said, this lecture is gonna be one
of the most important tips I can offer you
for interviewing as a product manager.
As you already know, if you've been watching
this course so far and I hope you have,
because what are you doing here if not?
Product management positions are based on making
good decisions based on data.
If someone asks you what you would do for a product
in a particular situation, you never just give them
an answer without mentioning how you came to that conclusion
and then why, and then what are the alternatives?
Here's a real life example from my actual career.
I was once interviewing a candidate for a product management
role at an e-commerce company.
Everyone's like, "Oh, you gotta interview this person.
"She's gonna be, she's great.
"She's got a great resume, great product manager."
So I'm like, "Oh, okay, I'll interview her.
"We'll see."
I asked her if she thought we should develop
a native mobile app, or just continue focusing on just doing
a normal mobile website, like we had been doing.
The problem is without even thinking,
I mean she she had like a three-second delay.
She goes, "Yeah, you should do a mobile app,
"native mobile app."
She didn't give any other details.
So whether or not she was correct with her answer
is not the issue, and in fact it didn't even matter.
The problem is that she just gave an answer
without asking for more information
to help her make the decision, and she didn't
follow it up with any reasoning behind
how she arrived at that conclusion or how her answer
may change based on data.
So you're thinking, "Well, Cole, what was the right answer?"
Look, the answer I was looking for in that situation
was for her to say, "Okay, I need more information
"to help make this decision.
"How many of your customers shop for mobile devices?
"What volume of traffic do you have?
"What sorts of engineering knowledge does your team have?
"And what's your budget?"
These things help make better decisions.
I would've also loved to see her follow-up her answer
by telling me the reasoning behind it.
And then most importantly, tell me what other options
were on the table besides just,
a mobile website or a native mobile app.
Because there are things you can do besides that.
There's an in-between.
You can do a hybrid app, there's other options.
So you need to mention these types of things
when you're answering questions.
As a product manager, there is never
a single correct answer to a question.
There are always multiple possibilities, and it's your job
to synthesize information, to come up with a good approach
and be clear about why this is the best option.
We work on data, not feelings.
Just like if someone in your company asks you
why you're doing a particular initiative,
or adding a certain feature.
You can't just say, "Because."
No, you gotta say, "Because the data says this.
"The user interviews say this.
"The market is going this way,
"and our competitors are doing this.
"but here's the other options we considered.
"This one seems to be the best approach for this reason."
That is how you think and act like a product manager.
So in interviews, always ask clarifying questions
when possible.
It shows that you're being thoughtful and thinking
like a product manager.
By the way, I don't mean to start asking them questions
if they ask you simple things like,
"Where did you go to school?"
Or, "Where did you work before here?"
What are you gonna ask 'em?
"What do you mean by that question?"
No, I mean, if you get to the point where
they're asking you about your opinions on their product
or "What would you do in this situation?"
There are a lot of tech companies out there
Google and Facebook and Twitter
and a lot of the big ones out there,
where the entire product management interview process
is just hypothetical situations.
They're like, "Hey, what do you think about this?
"What if this happened?
"What would you do?"
You got a reason through it.
It's like showing your work on a math test in high school.
Man, I sucked at math in high school.
I don't know why I like this job though.
Anyways, that's a really big tip.
If you can internalize that, and you can start thinking
about these things behind the questions,
and asking for more information to make the correct
or at least most correct decision on the answer
then you're gonna go far.
I'll see you guys in the next lecture for some
real insider tips on actually getting that job.
(upbeat music)

--- Insider Tips for Getting the Job ---

-: What's up, everybody?
All right, fair warning.
This is a longer lecture, but I promise you it is worth it.
I'm gonna let you in on a little bit of a secret here.
This is one of the best ways for getting any job,
but it works especially well for a product management role
and works especially, especially well
for getting your first product management role
in a junior position, which is what you gotta do
if you don't have any experience prior.
We've already talked about how it's very important
to demonstrate knowledge of product management
in order to land the job.
This is why interviews make you demonstrate
this during the interview.
But what about outside of that interview?
Can you do anything to demonstrate
that you really, really know what you're talking about?
Well, if you followed along so far,
you're probably already well underway
to demonstrating knowledge by establishing an online brand
and doing a side project
if you've never had any experience at work before.
But there is one more thing you can do
to maximize your chances at getting the job.
However, I gotta tell you that this is not easy,
this is gonna require some more time and effort from you.
If you aren't serious about getting your dream job
as a product manager and you don't want to go the extra mile
to stand out from the tons of other people
that want that job,
then you don't need to finish this video.
And I am super disappointed in you.
So, go ahead if you're one of those people,
turn off the video.
The rest of us will wait here.
Go ahead.
No? Yeah, go.
Okay, so now that the lazy people are gone,
I'm gonna let the rest of you in on this secret,
but it's not that complex, it's actually pretty simple.
Do a demonstration project for the company
that you're applying to
and send it to the hiring manager and the recruiter.
It's like doing a generic project
that we already talked about,
but it's much more targeted, and that's the key.
You're probably thinking like, "Oh, does this work?
Is this like why am I gonna do this?"
It does work.
In fact, this is how I got
my first few product management jobs
and I have also gotten a ton of offers by doing this
that allowed me to basically choose the company
I wanted to work for instead of having to accept
the first offer that came my way.
So, the basic technique here
is to find out what sorts of things the company
is working on with their product currently
with their strategy and that sort of thing.
Show them how you would approach the problem
if you were to be hired.
You can do this by either doing some generic research
on the company and finding out
through news articles and that sort of thing
what they're trying to build or the challenges they face.
Or you can be even more effective
and ask them some questions
during your first interview with them.
And with all of the work you've done so far in this course
with the online branding and your social media profiles
and just knowing what you're talking about,
it should be pretty easy to get
at least a first round interview or a phone call.
So, here's how I do it,
and you know how I did it
back when I was first starting out.
Let's say that I got a first round interview
for a product management role.
During the first interview, I would answer the questions,
but then I would also ask them why they're hiring,
which features this product position would work on,
and see if they give me any information I could use
on the things that they're trying to build,
or the markets they're trying to get into,
or the clients that they want, that type of thing.
So, what I would do after that,
I would immediately leave, after the interview
I immediately go home and I do research on the product,
the industry, the technology,
and the competition around the stuff that they told me
when I asked them those questions.
Then I would spend at least 24 to 48 hours
developing a comprehensive overview
of how I would approach that problem.
Usually, I would spend an entire weekend doing this,
but, "Cole," you say, "I want to go out with my friends
and drink beer on the weekends,"
or not beer, like I don't know, vodka.
Maybe you should do that instead.
But the other people are going to be doing this extra work
on the weekends in order to put themselves
above the other candidates
and show that they really want that job
and they know what they're talking about.
So, in the past, these projects I've done
have ranged from a small four-page PDF document
all the way to a 60-page slide deck.
I'm not kidding,
I actually put together 60 slides once for a company.
They freaking loved it.
These things usually contain things
like descriptions of the research I did,
the approaches I wouldn't consider,
the technical limitations I've found,
wire frames of potential solutions,
A/B tests I would run, competitive overviews.
and sometimes I even have gone so far
as to find friends of mine that use their product
then I call up those friends and say, "Hey,
can I talk to you for 30 minutes?"
I interview them about their feedback
and their experiences with that product.
I record it, or at least I transcribe it,
and I include those interviews
and the conclusions I drew from those interviews
in that project.
So, once I'm done with the project,
I will usually email the completed document
in like slide deck or PDF
to the recruiter and the hiring manager,
thanking them for the interview,
telling them that I put together some suggestions
to demonstrate my interest in working with them
and what I know about the industry.
So, the silver lining to all of this,
even if it doesn't help you get the job,
is that if you do it
you will get an even better chance at getting the next job.
This is because, first of all,
you've done a lot of product thinking
while you've been putting this thing together.
And trust me, it builds up and it helps,
but mostly because you can just take that case study
and you can just put it on your website or your blog
and then the next recruiter
that talks to you about this position is gonna check it out
and they're gonna say, "Wow
this person really knows their stuff.
Look at all of these case studies they've done
in their free time."
It's gonna be awesome.
On top of that, you can even talk
about these suggestions and case studies
for that company that you didn't get the job for.
You can talk about them
in the next interviews with other companies.
It has so many benefits.
All right, so use this information wisely.
This is really a great technique,
not only for getting a job,
but thinking through that product management mindset.
Like I said, you're gonna have to go through that process
and doing it is just gonna improve your product mind
as you go through it every single time.
Look, if you apply to a company
and you sit back waiting for them to call you
with a job offer
or waiting for them to call you for the next interview,
you're doing the exact same thing as everybody else.
Stand out from the crowd by putting in the effort,
showing them that you really want this position
and demonstrate to them that you've got the skills to do it.
I hope a bunch of you are motivated now with that lecture,
but also the stuff before it.
If you do all of that,
you're gonna be in such a good place
that you're gonna be so far beyond where I was.
I mean, when I first started
I had nearly no experience,
I did not take this course, obviously,
or that would be weird.
At that point,
there were no schools teaching product management.
I had no product management experience,
I kind of had to just figure it out.
But now, you've got someone like me
that's gone through all of this
telling you exactly how to do it.
You are leagues above every single other person
out there trying to get this position.
All right, I hope you enjoyed that lecture.
I know it's a lot of work, but it's totally worth it.
I will see you in the next one.
(upbeat music)
(upbeat music continues)

--- Section 15: Review & Recap ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- The First Things to Do ---

(bright upbeat music)
-: What's up everybody?
So this is all about how to excel at the role
once you've already got the product management job.
And because this is all about
how to excel after you've already got the job,
I'm assuming you've got the job,
and in that case, congratulations.
I am so happy for you.
It brings a tear to my eye.
And if only there were a way that I could
through the screen congratulate you or make you happy.
How about this bear suit?
I will teach the rest of this lecture in this bear suit
with these claws because you make me so happy
to be a product management instructor.
You got the job.
So once you've got your first product management job,
it can be a little bit daunting
trying to figure out what the first thing is
that you should do,
but bear with me here.
Product management is notorious
for having one of the longest ramp up times
for a lot of jobs out there.
By that I mean, it's really usually taking a lot of time
to get completely comfortable with the role.
This is because the work you do
involves so many different teams
and you need to understand the history and goals of each one
to do the best work.
What I'm gonna do here is give you some tips
on things to do as soon as you get the job and start work.
These tips will make you very much more effective
at your role.
All right, so tip number one,
schedule one on ones with everyone in the team.
If you're at a large company,
you don't have to meet with literally everybody,
but be sure that you at least meet
with the leaders of each major team.
Ask them what their goals are and what challenges they have.
Take notes so that you can refer back later.
All right, step two is arrange a meeting
with the lead engineer on your team
and talk about the technical stuff.
Have them explain to you how the architecture looks
on the back end in detail
and what sorts of technologies they use,
like databases and languages and that sort of thing.
Also, ask them what the biggest technical challenges are
and make sure you understand the basics
of how data is stored,
and again, what languages they use
and what the sticking points are,
what they're having trouble with.
This will just help you build a great relationship
with the engineers,
and it will make sure that you know
what you're getting yourself into
if you're gonna try to change something major
on the back end with a feature.
All right, so the next tip is start talking to users.
When you joined a lot of companies,
it's gonna appear as if they know exactly what users want
and even show you user feedback
that they've received in the past
or over the last couple of years.
However, it's extremely important,
or should I say, beary important to talk to your users
and get the best idea of what's important to them.
You wanna see this yourself
because you may draw some different conclusions.
After all, you're a brilliant product thinker.
Some things you can do here
are ask to join in on a sales call, go to sales meetings,
spend some time with the customer service team
helping them answer user questions
and tickets that people send in for support.
Things of this nature is what you're going for.
I also like to do a quick Google search
for things that people say about the company
on the social websites like the Twitter and the Reddit.
Number four, my bear head is falling off,
but read every internal document you can get your hands on.
I recommend, or you ask or find documentation for the epics
and mobile releases that have been made in the past,
as well as things like sales decks
and internal presentations.
All of these things are gonna help you
get a great historical view of the product
and what has happened over time.
Tip number five, look at the data.
As soon as you have the chance,
you should take a look at the existing metrics
for the product.
If there's a data science team or any data analysts,
ask to have a meeting with them
where they describe the types of data that are available
in terms of metrics
and any plans they have around implementing more tracking.
Sometimes you might not think there's enough tracking
to make the best decisions,
and you'll have to make an effort with your team
to track more.
Tip number six, meet with the boss.
You should make it a top priority
to have a meeting with either the head of product
or the CEO to ask them about expectations for your role,
but also to understand their goals.
Make sure what you talk about
is related to what metrics they're trying to optimize for
and what they'd really like for you to do in this role.
What are their biggest problems?
Like what are they fearful of over the next year
in terms of stuff that's gonna be challenging
or maybe what competitors are doing?
You can also ask them about things like
process improvements internally that need to be made
or improving marketing.
These are all things that you can help out with
as a product manager.
All right, with those tips,
you're going to be in a very good position
to do the best work as soon as possible in your new role.
Like my claws are sharp,
and I do mean my claws because I am a bear,
your product management skillsets will be sharp,
your knowledge will be sharp starting this job.
It's super important that you do this.
And I've done this in all of the companies I've worked for.
It's been really huge.
All right, everybody, hope you enjoyed that one.

--- End of Course ---

-: Hey everybody. This is the end,
but only the end of the course, not the end of your journey
into the world of product management.
Evan and I have included a ton
of reference material and content, and as you know
we've got the interviews available to you
which are very good, but we'd really like
to add a lot more content to this course.
If there's any feedback you have, I would love to see it
in the feedback section or just email me
or Evan and say, "Yo, I wanna learn about this"
and we'll make a lecture and we'll put it up there
and we wanna make sure everyone's got
a really good grasp on this, and we're,
we're totally open to clarifying
or redoing some stuff to make it make sense for you.
The last thing I want to say before we get outta here
is that something really fundamental to the role
of product management is that it is not so much
a set of skills that makes you a product manager,
you do have to have these skills, don't get me wrong
and we've already talked about them,
but you really need to have a mindset.
That mindset is all about proving things through data,
making the best decisions based on the information
available, getting more information if you need it,
and just generally thinking about things in a deeper way
than just through your gut feeling.
Remember, as a product manager,
you are almost always wrong and so is everyone else.
That is until you can prove that your assumptions
are not wrong through data and through talking to users.
Lastly, I wanna say that this is the coolest job ever
and I'm so glad, along with Evan, that you guys have
joined us through this journey and learned so much
about what we really, really like doing.
Please feel free to reach out, to contact us, email us,
write us whatever, Tweet at us.
Twitter's kind of cool, Snapchat us, whatevs,
and yeah, just see how you're doing.
If you get a job or if this was helpful for you at all
let us know and we're there to answer questions for you
in the future. All right, everybody, I'll see you later.
Thanks so much for taking this course.
Alright, the course is over.
Go ahead and turn off the video.
Yep. Nope, stop the video.
I gotta go.
I got places to go and things to do, so
Turn it off.
Alright.

--- Interview with Daniel Demetri, Product Lead @ Earnest, Ex-PM @ Google ---

(Jazz music)
(laughing)
(indistinct chatter)
-: Yeah. So I'm here with Daniel Dimitri,
the head of product at Earnest.
And could you tell us a little bit about you,
yourself and your background?
-: Yeah, so I was a computer science major at Harvard.
Studied that undergrad in economics.
Worked in private equity for a year and a half,
and then applied to Google's
associate product manager program.
Got in and started in New York,
moved out here and
worked in ads a bit,
and was, sorry in maps.
Was on the maps team for two years at Google.
And then I left and joined Earnest,
and I've been there for a year and a half.
-: Cool.
-: I was their first product manager
and now I lead a team of eight.
-: Yeah.
Tell us about the APM program
because this is something that not everyone knows about,
the associate product manager program at Google.
-: Yeah.
Well, the Associate Product Manager Program at Google
is a amazing two year program.
They take 30 people a year globally.
Typically, well, it's zero to three years out of college,
but it's typically zero.
They take computer scientists.
They train people up into the nebulous craft
of product management.
And most, I think that they had about
50% retention within five years.
So they do a pretty good job retaining talent
for quite a while.
And they expose you to different parts
of the Google ecosystem.
So you can see ads, you can see search,
you can see Google Plus, back in the day.
-: Do you get a choice on like
where you want to go?
-: Yeah, so I remember my first request was like,
"Please don't put me in ads."
-: Why?
-: And they were like,
"Well, we can't promise anything.
We'll see what happens."
And then I showed up on my first day,
and they have this session
where all the trainees or the recruits of the crop
sort of get picked up by their bosses.
And I get basically my first meeting with my first boss.
And I'm like, "So what do you do?"
I mean, what do we do?"
And he's like,
"Well, I'm the director of the ad exchange."
And I'm like, my face fell.
And I was like, "I'm gonna be in ads, this is the worst."
And they like totally disregarded,
voluntarily disregarded my request to not be on ads.
-: You had one job request.
-: Yeah.
And I actually loved being on ads.
Your second year you have a little bit more influence as to
what you do.
And then throughout the rest of your career,
Google has quite a bit of mobility, so.
-: Yeah.
So before you got into product management and you,
before you were in APM program, like what was
your notion,
your preconceived notion on like what product management was
and what was, why were you interested in doing it?
-: Great question. I had no idea what it was.
My friends...
So I had a friend who was a product manager at Google
and I asked him,
what do you learn as a product manager?
Like what do you become?
And he was basically like, well,
you learn how to get things done.
I'm like, that's super vague, come on.
But he didn't really do a better job at explaining it.
I felt that the role was going to be to marry the business
and the tech sides and being a joint kind of computer
science and economics person, that really appealed to me.
I knew that I liked being engaged with technology,
but I also felt that I didn't want to be coding.
-: Right.
-: And so thinking about technology, but also not coding and,
but being engaged with the coding and the coders.
-: Right.
-: That felt really appealing to me.
-: Yeah.
-: I wasn't really sure what it was.
I just knew that Google's a great place to work.
-: Yeah.
-: And it seemed like a great program.
And so I felt like I'd try it out.
-: So now that you have done it for some time and you're head
of product to Earnest,
if you were to summarize it in some way, like a short way,
which we've actually,
we've had like a whole lecture on this in the course as
well, like summarizing product management.
-: Right.
-: How would you summarize it?
-: Right.
I mean, I think that one better way to think
anything's done might be to fill the gaps
between all of the cross-functional teams.
So everyone in the company is working to make the product a
success in some fashion,
but there tends to be a lot of translation that needs to
occur between engineering and in our case, capital markets.
Because we're lending money out and marketing and PR
and like all these functions need to collaborate,
creating a shared sense of timeline,
creating shared sense of what is being delivered
or when or why,
is sort of core to the product role.
And that sort of manifests in product requirements.
It manifests in roadmaps.
And so I view like,
as a simplified version or defining
what product management is,
I'd say it's something about filling the gaps between the
cross-functional roles.
-: Cool.
We actually actually just got done filming a lecture about
the different types of product management roles
in different companies.
-: Yeah.
-: Actually referring to your blog post,
it's a good blog post.
-: Thank you. Thank you.
I'm excited about it, yeah.
-: Yeah.
Except you have like a different,
probably a more thorough labeling, but
we talk basically about internal product management,
where your stakeholders are internal and then, you know,
business to business and enterprise product managers.
-: Yes.
-: And then just consumer product managers.
-: Yes.
They're very different.
And I think in like resume screening,
I think that like hiring managers
definitely are taking a view as to
oh, that they're that type of product manager.
-: Right.
-: And so one of the great things about Google was that it's
such a broad conglomerate at this point.
You can seamlessly transition between the teams.
-: Right.
-: And allow your functional,
or like your core expertise in computer science or just
academic pedigree generally speaking,
to allow you to transition at a junior level between teams
with actually very different styles.
-: Right.
-: So I worked on Double Click,
very B2B sales driven environment,
which is like features prioritized on
what customers were asking for.
But then I switched to maps,
was entirely different.
It's logs analysis,
What are clients...
I'm stuck in the Earnest.
-: Right.
-: What are users of Google Maps really doing?
-: Right.
-: And analyzing that and then prioritizing and
bug closings and feature requests.
-: Yeah.
-: And so then you can go out from Google or from another
program to sort of address kind of any business need.
-: Yeah.
-: And so that's a really,
that's a great reason to start off a product management
career at a big company.
-: Yeah.
-: Because as you were pointing out earlier in the course,
there's so many different types.
They do very different things to have different values.
-: Right.
-: So getting to experience both is very valuable
for one's career.
-: Yeah.
I've talked to a number of Facebook PMs that apparently
Facebook has a rotation program on,
you're an early product manager.
I think you don't even have a choice but to rotate between
departments or products.
-: Yes.
-: I think like you have to go from like timeline to photos
to whatever and get a good handle
on like all of these things.
-: Right.
-: And it keeps the ideas sort of fresh.
You don't get like a tunnel vision on the,
vision for that one product.
-: Yeah.
-: So that's interesting.
-: Yeah. Google's APM program is not dissimilar.
-: Oh. Really?
-: Yeah.
They, you can convince the leadership
to allow you to stay in a similar area.
-: Right.
-: But they do wanna see you switch your perspective.
-: Right.
-: Yeah.
-: So speaking of features, you said feature requests,
we have a whole section in the course as well on,
so you have ideas and you have feature requests and then,
there's this need to get to the core of a user need
rather than just taking feature requests at face value.
-: Yes.
-: So there's a, I mean,
in the course I talk about a number of times where
I've had a feature request and I do two or three levels
of digging and you find out that there's something,
that there's a,
that that was a symptom,
-: Yes.
-: And that there's more of like a disease somewhere else.
-: Yes.
And I can think of a million instances.
Right?
-: Could you...
Yeah.
Could you tell us about any of these, these instances?
Because this practical real world like storytelling is
really useful.
-: Sure. Yeah.
So I mean right now this week we,
so Earnest is a consumer lender.
We do student loan refinancing and personal loans.
We have an internal team that does some of the loan
processing and they have gotten to the habit reviewing raw
documents that have been provided by the client.
Think like a tax form.
And so they've gotten to the habit of, okay,
I'm gonna look at these tax forms and then I'm going to make
a bunch of calculated
subjective judgments based off of that.
And then I'll using those subjective judgment
put in a decision.
And so they ask for features that are like,
I wanna be able to pull all the documents more quickly.
When in reality if you're thinking
kind of a little bit ahead,
what you wanna do is extract the important information off
those documents and then have the calculations run that
judge the applications quality.
-: Right.
-: And so you don't wanna build features that are going to
make it easier to suck all the applic,
like make it easier to review PDFs faster.
-: Right.
-: You wanna build the extraction mechanism and then automate
kind of a lot of the logic that they're doing.
-: Right.
-: It's a classic problem when you're dealing with an
operations team.
-: Yeah.
-: It's like that balance between automating their job and
making their jobs just more efficient.
-: Yeah.
-: In other circumstances, you know,
you think that you can get away with great examples on
Google Maps.
We tried to get away with a removing a feature called
Search Nearby.
So, Search nearby is a feature where you would search for
Gary Danko restaurant,
maybe you're going on a date there,
and then you wanna find a bar next door for afterward
to meet up with friends.
So you would click search for Gary Danko and then click
search nearby and then search for bars.
And we thought, well, can't people just type
in bars near Gary Danko?
-: Right.
-: Or just search for Gary Danko
and then the map will move
and then they can search for bars.
-: Right.
-: But then,
and the opposite to people requesting features is
the opposite would be removing features people
aren't worried about.
-: Right.
-: And fixing what ain't broken kind of can lead to.
We removed this feature search nearby and got,
this became our biggest chunk
of customer feedback at Google.
And the maps team by-
-: By removing that?
-: By removing that.
-: Yeah.
-: The consumer operations team is the team at Google.
That sort aggregates customer feedback.
Our user feedback and-
-: Oh, there's a whole team.
-: There's a whole team.
-: Wow.
-: That clusters the user feedback.
I think very few people outside of Google are even aware
that this happens.
-: Yeah.
-: Because Google has a habit of not really responding
-: Yeah.
-: To user feedback.
In some circumstances they do,
but actually the user feedback that's clustered by a team in
India and then the product managers reviewed the clusters.
-: Right.
-: It's the only way to digest this information on.
-: Sure.
There's still probably just so much, so much information.
-: Exactly. So the top cluster quickly became,
where does search nearby go?
-: Right.
-: And we're like oh shoot.
-: That's awesome.
-: To redo this.
-: Yeah.
This is...
I met a guy that was a PM of bugs
at Facebook.
So there's a person just-
-: Wow.
-: That they have like one person,
or I guess many people in charge of bugs,
but it's the same thing.
They just have such a volume at like one and a half billion
that they, you just can't look at bug reports.
-: Right.
-: Like you have to do some analysis on the bug reports.
-: Right.
-: Because there's hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of
thousands of them coming in.
Right?
-: Yes.
-: There's no way you could ever read them.
-: Which is another classic trade off product managers have
to make is between closing bugs and working on new features.
Especially when those features are going to render obsolete.
Some of the bugs have been been filed.
-: Yeah.
-: And you're-
-: More features for that matter.
Yeah. Feature.
-: That's right.
Or we could add that check box,
but eventually the whole page is gonna go away.
-: Right.
-: So what-
-: I think you're ignoring them.
-: Yes, it's the worst when people,
I mean most product managers are probably hated in some
respect in their companies because they're the
no people or the like not yet people or not now.
-: Always.
-: That's not a priority.
-: Right.
That's the classic.
-: Yeah.
-: We'll prioritize it.
-: Yeah.
Well yeah, that's P four, P three.
Well we'll get, that's a next quarter thing.
-: Right. Right.
-: I think that that's what...
If you generalize the view of
those sorts of decisions,
what you realize is that product management
is a very path dependent exercise.
-: Yeah.
-: Because you might agree on the vision
with a bunch of people,
which is probably the first goal of product management is
just to agree where we head of product.
Like with Spotify,
it's like what do we want people to do with this product?
Is it, do we,
is the vision more like adding videos in this is a
multimedia center or is this more just like a music?
This is your like lay time.
-: Right.
-: This is the background of your whole life.
-: Right.
-: Like, which is not video.
-: Right.
-: Background of your life is probably more like just silent
and responsive and aware of you.
-: Yeah.
-: So then, okay,
we agree on the vision of where this is headed.
Where of course the vision at Google
will just be all things to everybody.
And then-
-: Yeah.
-: Which made it very challenging in fact
to direct priorities.
-: Right.
-: But then, okay, how,
what's the roadmap to getting there?
What are the coins along the playing field that we've,
we're gonna navigate off course to pick up.
-: Right. Right.
-: And so it's like a video game.
-: Right?
-: Like should we pick up the 2 cent piece over there even
though it's kind of further,
because if we do actually it's close,
it's a traveling salesman problem.
-: Yeah. Yeah.
-: Which is why we're not really worried about product
management being obsoleted by technology.
-: Right.
-: Cause we're having to crack that one.
-: Right. Exactly.
Computers can't crack the traveling salesman thing.
-: Exactly.
-: Yeah.
-: And that's so we're safe.
-: Yeah, exactly.
Actually the first thing you mentioned the off
the feature ideas where you have to dig deeper with
the documents being pulled at a faster rate.
That is like the classic example of the,
I think the Steve Jobs quote where if you ask people what
they want, they'll just say like a faster horse.
-: Yeah. I've heard it attributed to Henry Ford even.
-: Oh, okay.
No, it's, it was-
-: Oh, but Steve was probably the one who made it popular.
-: Yeah. Right.
Like everything. Yeah.
Didn't do it first.
-: Certainly no, like,
I think very few people were asking for the iPhone.
I remember I was pretty excited to have a separate iPod from
my phone and that they just seemed like
different functions of my life.
-: Then only later iPhone V3,
gen three was really where kind of came together as this is
gonna offer some pretty compelling new experiences.
-: Yeah
-: And simplicity for one's life.
-: Right.
-: Yeah.
-: There's...
Yeah.
As you know, Apple is,
I guess they're notorious for not doing, like,
I think they do user research but not doing
the broader-
-: That's right.
-: High volume.
-: The vision doesn't come from the bottom sum.
It is top down vision
and then they'll validate the execution,
but they're not deriving strategic insight as much-
-: From people
-: Exactly.
-: From the average consumer.
-: Yeah.
-: Because back in,
I think you can still look at some pictures like in the
early or late 1800's and their version of the future
was like horses and buggies on the moon.
-: Right.
-: You know, so somehow we're gonna get the horses
and buggies up there.
-: Yeah.
-: But the...
But it's still gonna be a horse and a buggy.
-: Yeah.
It's not dissimilar, companies like Google,
Google takes a very supply side driven approach,
which I think makes them differentiated in the market.
They're really focused on what can we do
with all this technology.
So given that we have big table,
like how can we apply big table?
-: Right.
-: Given we have search, how can we apply search?
And-
-: Big Table is their database of everything.
-: That's right.
-: That's the single table.
-: No, that would be, they have the knowledge graph.
-: Okay.
-: That's the database of everything.
Big table is the database, storage technology.
-: Right. Okay.
-: But, okay, so if you do have the knowledge graph
and you do know a bunch of things about things-
-: Right.
-: Then where can we...
And then, so like I integrated that into Google Maps
and other product managers were integrating that into search
as like knowledge panels.
-: Yeah.
-: Other people are integrating that into Android.
So you're just geographically located somewhere.
It's pulling up relevant facts
about your life in Google now.
-: Right.
-: And so these sort core technologies and data assets,
the product management team then translates those into cool
features and ultimately products.
There was a whole product Google had called,
I don't remember.
And as you navigated through a foreign city,
it would sort of craft a story for you to follow along.
It was like guided tours,
I think it was called like Sidekick or something like this.
-: Yeah, yeah.
One of these Google side things that just comes out.
-: There's a million of them.
-: There's a lot, yeah.
-: Yeah.
-: Sometimes they die quietly.
-: Right.
Sometimes they don't get publicized in the first place.
-: Right.
And so at companies like Google and what we're trying to
create at Earnest,
it's awareness of what technology you have that then
translates into products and features,
which is reasonably different from how product
management is approached at other companies that, you know,
might focus more on user research,
-: Right.
-: Or focus more on customer demands.
-: Right.
-: And it's just thinking, what can we do with this?
-: Right.
-: Yeah.
-: Okay.
So if I am not mistaken, you actually have,
you have job listings out
for product management for Earnest?
I mean, it probably will not be the case
when this course is out, but-
-: No we're gonna be constantly hiring folks.
-: Okay. Okay.
-: Don't worry.
-: But-
-: We've had it open for a year and a half a year.
-: Oh really?
-: Yeah.
It's just you're constantly hiring.
It's how the team goes from just me to eight people.
-: Right. Okay. Yeah.
-: By that thing being open.
-: Okay.
But you, so you're still a person
I'd like to ask about,
because this course is about getting into product management
for a number of people, how would you, first of all,
suggest someone goes about learning about the role,
obviously this course,
but ultimately looking to get a job there.
-: Yeah.
-: Techniques of and such for finding them and that
sort of thing.
But then also,
what do you like to see as a-
-: Yes.
Hiring manager.
-: As a hiring manager.
Like what qualities are you looking for?
-: For sure.
So product management,
learning about it is tremendously difficult.
It's very hard to craft a product management internship.
We do do it at Earnest and we are hiring interns.
-: Yeah.
-: Including interns with no product management experience.
-: Oh, that's good then.
-: Yeah. So that's relevant.
-: Product management interns-
-: See what Tiffany wants.
-: Great.
Product management internships are probably a
good exposure.
I didn't do one. Right?
I didn't know about in product management internships when I
was in college and afterward it I didn't need it.
So, but I've heard great things about it
from my friends who've done it.
Okay.
Otherwise, to learn about product management are
to work in a product environment.
So I've definitely had a number of engineers
sort of approach me
and they're interested in product management.
They don't yet have enough experience working
with product engineering.
-: Right.
-: So they might be very infrastructural-
-: Backend.
-: Engineering.
That sort of thing.
-: And so I encourage them to transition closer to products
prior to jumping onto the product management team so that
they can observe and participate in the product decision
making process before they're, you know,
in a role that is exclusively focused on that.
-: Right.
-: So front end engineering or just product engineering
generally speaking,
is a great way to get closer to product management.
Once one has a sense for what product management is,
the hiring managers are looking for folks, you know,
at Earnest we're looking for four things.
So we're looking for analytical skills, technical skills,
creative skills, and collaborative skills.
So that's like at Earnest, I think other companies,
based on the type of product manager they're looking for,
they might switch it up.
But I can speak to Earnest really well.
And so analytical skills,
we're looking for things like proficiency and SQL.
Do you know your different join types?
Do you know how limit works?
-: Sort of a basic proficiency, but not to-
-: To an extent to...
Up to the point of an advanced proficiency.
-: Okay.
-: Would be even better.
-: So yeah.
SQL is a database technology.
And then you would learn MySQL, which is,
or you'd learn SQL queries,
which is being able to query the database for like-
-: Exactly.
-: Information.
-: Any kind of...
In disparate data sets, you know,
Excel junkies can kind of,
are most apt to be able to transfer into, SQL experts.
-: That's not too different.
-: Exactly.
You're just dealing with understanding data
at the highest level, right?
Maybe you're a R or a state junkie, like wherever data is,
if you're capable of thinking through basic statistics or
thinking about how you can tie data together
to derive insights,
you're on the path to making data driven product decisions,
which are the types of decisions that you'll be able to use
to get the respect of your team.
-: Yeah, that's a big one.
The respect of your team
-: Yes.
-: Sort of thing.
-: Yes.
-: Is being at least, even if you're not technical,
you should, there's a product manager
named Ellen Chisa, who actually went to,
is called Boston near you and I,
and she has a really great article about this.
Like if you're not technical, like
how technical should you become?
And she argues that it should, at minimum
You should be curious all the time
about learning more, right?
-: Yes. Yes.
-: Doesn't mean you have to go be an expert coder
this weekend,
but it means that you should be curious about like every
single new technology
-: Yes.
-: That you're using and always asking, you know,
engineers about things and yeah.
Demonstrating interest and in learning these things rather
than just saying, I don't care about these things,
we'll have an engineer deal with it or whatever.
Or I'll ask an engineer every single time.
-: Yeah, Yeah.
Which is gonna be an expensive conversation to keep having.
Right?
-: They're very expensive people.
-: Yeah. Yeah.
So that describes kind of the second bucket of skills that
we look for as technical skills.
-: Yeah.
-: So we're looking for folks who have done engineering
or have done computer science class or you know,
have learned programming through a general assembly thing,
and then applied that in some respect on side projects.
-: Right.
-: So ultimately your ability to understand how the technical
architecture has implications for product extensibility is
what is core to the technical knowledge, as well as not
getting shown up on the technical side
by folks like your designers.
-: Yeah.
-: So like that's just kind of impairs trust
in a manner of speaking.
-: Right.
-: So I challenge all of my product managers to not get shown
up by our product design team.
-: Yeah.
-: Which is, you know, relatively advanced design team.
They're getting into get,
they're making some copy changes, style changes,
-: Right.
They're publishing those,
-: Right.
They're dealing with unit tests
failing and understanding the build failed.
What does that even mean? The build failed.
-: Right.
-: If you don't know what it means for the build to fail,
you still need to ramp up your technical skills before you
can really get into a technical product management role.
-: Right.
-: Maybe you'd be product manager of like
a toothpaste company,
but of a tech company, you need to understand the,
what's the process of building the right system.
-: Right.
And even if you're not pushing code yourself, you know,
to production, you need to understand how the flow works.
-: Right.
-: In continuous integration and like what get is and what
branches are and what.
-: You need the vocabulary.
-: Totally.
On the creative side, I usually challenge people
to imagine what I mean by that.
-: Yeah.
-: And then on the collaboration skills,
-: That's a good one.
(laughing)
-: On the collaboration skills, that's like,
I think of communication skills,
I think of getting things done
without stepping on too many feet.
Communication skills I've also further broken down
for folks, it's the ability to speak with accuracy.
So you, what you were saying is true,
which is actually sometimes challenging,
especially when you don't know something.
It can be easy to speak about truth with things that are
actually inferences or you're uncertain about them.
So speaking with truth is accuracy,
speaking with precision or communicating with precision.
So that would mean saying things in an unambiguous manner,
they can't be misinterpreted.
-: Right.
-: And then speaking with brevity,
so even if you were to speak with accuracy and precision,
you might still have that coded
in tons of other information.
And really great product managers are able to communicate
with all the certain teams in those three respects.
-: Yeah.
-: Briefly, accurately, precisely.
-: Right.
-: And then additionally they're able to translate,
they use, we use words that sort of communicate
with each of the teams.
-: Right.
-: Like legal is going to have a different perception
on what a policy is than engineering.
-: Yes.
-: Because engineering has a,
like a rounding policy and a data persistence policy.
-: Right.
-: Legal doesn't really care about data persistence policy.
They care more about the products,
implications for users
and how are users being charged things.
-: Yeah.
The communication thing is huge.
You need...
There's a saying which I don't know if it applies anymore,
but for every single group of stakeholders,
so you executives,
your legal and marketing and engineers and design,
there's a different deck, right?
So there's different-
-: Yeah.
-: Different words for different groups.
-: Yeah.
-: Like you say,
they should all still be concise and brief
and true to the point factual.
But then if you're talking to an executive, you,
it's gonna be ultra brief, right?
-: Ultra, yeah.
Elevator at Google, you were known to have to,
especially in the earlier days, to chase around executives.
-: Right.
-: And so that you could catch them at an elevator moment.
-: Yeah.
And then give them your 30 second pitch
and get their verbal approval and
you'd run off and keep executing.
-: Right.
-: That was how brief you had to be
to win as a product manager back in like 2007.
-: That's awesome.
-: Yeah.
And people would stock,
there'd be like a chat group where you're like, oh,
Marissa's in the elevator, like grab her.
Yeah.
-: Yeah.
-: Fortunately we're not like that yet at Earnest.
-: So then, so you mentioned the four things,
and let's say that someone has,
they've learned about what product management is and they
have learned some technical skills and so on and so forth,
and they've applied some technical skills
and made to decide project and that sort of thing.
-: Yeah.
-: And they're looking not even for a job with you,
but just anywhere,
is it vital to have some sort of portfolio thing
project to point at or?
-: Yeah.
That's a great question.
I think that what I've been looking for has been a little
bit less portfolio based
and a little bit more experience based.
We wanna see that people have gone through the trials of
interacting with a really top class product designer and
knows kind of how to communicate.
As we were just talking about,
one of the core competencies is being able to translate with
the different functions.
That's sort of the ultimate purpose of the role.
-: Right.
-: And so if you have created like an independent portfolio
that you've product managed this product on your own,
it doesn't demonstrate that you have the skills to
communicate well with the product design team and understand
what their concerns are gonna be or their considerations or
what you can delegate to them.
Similarly with a great product engineer,
similarly with a great, you know,
maybe even a legal team or marketing team.
-: Right.
-: And so we're looking a little bit less for
independent work, and a little bit more for
experience working with these teams.
-: Right.
So a product internship role and-
-: Yeah.
Or even like, you know, in coursework,
like a cross-functionally collaborative product, sort of.
-: There could be a side of product as long as,
you're actually doing this communication between the
different groups and you're-
-: Yeah, exactly.
-: Right.
-: It just can't be like a tiny group.
-: Right.
-: Like of one you and one other person.
-: Right.
-: You're wearing too many hats.
-: Right.
-: In that role and you're not like practicing
the scaling of those hats being worn by different people,
then you coordinating all of them.
-: Right.
-: So, okay, for entry level product managers,
we're really just looking for basic proficiency in those
skill areas more so than experience.
So we're looking for, you know,
do you know computer science fundamentals already
and do you know SQL
and do you, you know, have a track record
in the creative side of being able to problem solve
interview questions with us in the whiteboard.
-: Right.
-: Or of academic thought,
like do you have a cool thesis?
On the collaboration side you know,
did you participate in any group projects extracurricularly?
So you know,
at Harvard there was the like robotics competition,
you could like jump into that and help build a better robot.
Or did you just show leadership by becoming president
of the school newspaper?
-: Right.
-: These are sort of like the core collaboration skills or
indications of those core collaboration skills that will
give us confidence to bring you in as a product manager at
the entry level.
But beyond the entry level,
going to mid-level and senior level,
we really need to see actual product management experience
with the types of stakeholders that you're gonna be engaging
with at our environment.
-: Cool.
-: Yeah.
-: All right. Well, so I think that about does it.
-: Sweet.
-: But-
-: Thanks for having me.
-: Yeah.
Daniel Dimitri head of product at Earnest
and we'll see you in the next lecture.
(indistinct chatter)

--- Interview with David Lifson, VP of Product @ Homepolish ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hey, everyone, I'm with Dave Lifson out of New York,
VP of Product for Homepolish.
And we're gonna do a little bit
of interview here on some product management topics.
And Dave has been...
Dave, you were at what?
You were at Etsy before like long ago
and what, Amazon as well?
-: Yeah, so my first job out of school was at Amazon.
I was a software developer
and then realized within probably 15 months
that I was made to be a product manager.
And so, it got to switch
to the recommendations team at Amazon,
which is because you bought these items,
we recommend these others.
And I was at Amazon for a total of two years,
learned a ton, loved it there,
but just had an opportunity I couldn't say no to,
to move to Brooklyn from Seattle
and be the first head of product at Etsy.
So, that was 2008 when Etsy was 50 people
and all three founders were there.
And I then did my own startup for three years
with the technical founders of Etsy.
We sold that company, I joined General Assembly
as employee 25
and grew that from 400 when I left,
over two and a half years.
I started running curriculum,
and then moved to running product design and engineering.
I spent a year at Poppin doing the same thing,
product design and engineering.
And then, now, I just started at Homepolish
about a month ago with the same.
-: Cool.
So, yeah, this course has about,
right now it's over 4,000 students
that are enrolled, and it's only been out for about a month.
And it's focused on, yeah,
people that are new to product management
or people that are in the role
and they're trying to get better.
And yeah, one of the recurring themes
as I know that you know from teaching at General Assembly
and that sort of thing is that product management,
learning about it is quite popular right now,
because it's becoming a more popular role.
People are starting
to learn what product managers are doing,
but they want to find out more,
but there's no good way to learn about it in a formal way,
or you can't get a degree.
You have that.
You and I both just happened upon it.
And I think, most people end up doing that.
And I think, right now, due to things like General Assembly
or like this course,
you can learn about it formally
from an actual product manager.
So, the first question I wanted to ask was, (chuckles)
it's a interesting one, no matter who I ask is like,
if you had to sum up the role of product management
in a sentence or two, what would it be?
What does the product management mean to you?
-: Oh, wow. Yeah, that's really great.
So, what does product management mean to me?
I think, the role of the product manager
is to have a deep understanding of the customer,
a deep understanding of the business,
and marrying those two together
to identify opportunities and problems,
prioritize those opportunities,
and then devise the right solution for the right time.
And so, what's so challenging
I think about product management is that
we don't fit the mold of the individual contributor.
I think, organizations, historically,
have been structured similar to
how they were in the industrial revolution.
With manufacturing where you just,
you have departments that have workers,
and workers create output.
And coders write code and marketers create marketing
and designers create designs and what (audio breaking)
Don't create anything (audio fast-forwards)
for everyone else that we work with in the organization,
so that the quality that is produced is higher
and the solution is more efficient and more effective.
-: Cool.
Okay.
And so, what did you think about the role
before you were actually a product manager?
Did you have any preconceived notions
or did you know anything about it?
-: Well, my first team at Amazon,
I was in the community group,
which did user-generated content.
And so, my little corner of it was this thing
called Listmania where
Amazon customers could create lists
of their favorite products,
like your top 10 things to take with you on a camping trip
or my favorite scary movies.
And we had no product manager.
It was just a bunch of engineers.
And we just built whatever the heck we wanted to build.
And so, I ended up...
Jeff Bezos had this idea.
This was back in 2006,
where Facebook was becoming a thing.
People were talking a lot about networks.
And so, he was like,
"What if we created a network of product SKUs?
If products could have relationships to each other,
what would that look like?"
And somehow that ended up on my desk as a 23-year-old.
And so, we decided to build this hot or not for products.
So, essentially, customers could vote
on which of these two shoes is more stylish
or which of these two electronics (audio breaking)
easier to use.
And as you've voted (audio breaking)
we would use your votes
to generate you a recommendation (audio breaking)
like very expensive.
We built the whole thing.
We launched it and it was a total disaster.
Conversion rate was somewhere around half a percent.
And it was such a clear example
of how product management could have saved the day,
and we just didn't know it.
-: Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Working on the right thing rather than just something.
-: Yeah, and or testing any assumptions
or doing any sort of user research or prototyping.
And so, when I moved into the recommendations team,
which did have
a track record of having strong product managers,
I was surrounded by people
who could really show me the ropes,
which is how I learned.
-: Cool.
So, something that we talked, 'cause you mentioned,
you mentioned this like talking to users
or validating something and validating your assumptions.
Another thing that happens quite often
to us as product managers is we talk to users
or we get feedback and they send some sort of request
or maybe if you're an internal product manager,
you get basically what amounts
to a feature request or product spec request.
And oftentimes, that thing that's being requested
is not what is actually the solution.
It happens to everyone.
If you look two levels deeper,
there's actually another problem here
that maybe that solution doesn't solve.
And so, when you're receiving feedback from users,
you gotta dig in deeper.
Do you have any war stories
of user requests that are just absolutely
were just not the solution at first that you could share
and maybe what the real solution was?
-: Well, I don't know if I can tell you the real solution,
'cause I don't know,
but I'll tell you a story of this exact thing,
except it wasn't (audio breaking) it was a founder.
So, the end of 2012 and the founders of-
-: Hey, sorry about that.
So, we had slight technical difficulty. (laughs)
-: It's okay. Do you want to ask the question again?
-: No, no, we can just totally edit it in.
So, you said it was the end of 2012
and that's-
-: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
okay, all right,
(Dave drowns out interviewer)
so let's keep going.
Yeah, so it was the end
-: Yeah.
-: of 2012 and the founders were really worried
that the business model
was looking a lot like University of Phoenix
in the sense that our revenue came from
adults coming to a classroom and learning.
And so, revenue was really constrained
by one, our ability to purchase or rent real estate.
And then, secondly,
our sales ability to fill that real estate.
And so, they came to me and they said,
we really need something that is a subscription
and can target customers
who don't live where we have classrooms.
And you have three months, go build it.
And so, this is like, this was a big mistake for me,
because as a product manager,
I should have recognized immediately
that there was no mention of the customer here
or any sort of customer problem.
This was something that came out of a spreadsheet
and in an analysis of market valuations
and what it would be really nice if this cell
in our Excel spreadsheet was twice as big.
And in some cases, it is up to the product manager
to translate that into, okay,
well then, I'm gonna go do some music research
and discover what a customer problem is,
and then work towards product market fit.
But given the three-month timeline on top of that,
we felt really pressured to just look around
to see what assets we had available
and what we could package together.
And so, we did happen to have a library
of live streams that we had recorded and stored away.
And so, we said, okay, how about for 25 bucks a month,
you can have access to our library of videos?
And we called that front row.
And so, we built it, we launched it.
It did okay,
but no matter how much we optimized the signup flow,
the UX, optimized the acquisition marketing channels,
the LTV just really wasn't there.
And I still today, feel like at its core,
subscription is just
a very odd business model for education.
So, yeah, that was always a tricky one.
-: Yeah, yeah.
I've got, yeah, tons of stories myself,
but that's the one thing all PMs have in common.
So, there's always these weird,
yeah, user requests and yeah,
I think, in your early years,
you probably just go do those things
and then you realize that's a big part of your job
is taking all of those
and figuring out what the real underlying need here is.
And in another interview we did
that we were talking about that quote that I think,
the Henry Ford quote which is like,
people would've asked for faster horses
instead of the car back in the day,
'cause they just can't see past a...
Not everyone's sitting back and thinking big all the time.
And Apple takes advantage of this with their products
by not asking users what they want,
but rather, seeing what people want through,
yeah, usability testing and all of that.
And then, giving them stuff
that they didn't know they wanted or needed.
-: Yeah, this is really the hardest thing
I think for a product manager,
because when you're starting out in your career,
I think, you wanna get some traction,
get some projects under your belt,
just practice the process.
And so, it's much easier
to take things after product market fit.
You're in optimization mode.
How can we take our signup flow
and increase conversion by 10%?
And in that case, you do your user testing,
you suss out what those
steps in your funnel that are giving you the most trouble
and then you just tweak them.
And so, it's very like, here's my problem,
here's my solution, and solve it.
But when it comes to inventing the iPhone,
it's such a big open-ended problem
that it requires I think, a very different approach,
where you really wanna take more of that ideal style,
user-centered design approach
of let's just like a very open mind,
just talk to people
and learn their context and their situation,
and then take these leaps of faith
and do a whole bunch of prototyping around it.
Yeah, it's very difficult.
(interviewer laughing)
-: Okay, so just a couple more questions.
One,
because yeah, not only are you a teacher.
You've taught product management in the past,
but you also are a hiring manager, now VP,
and before that, head of product,
if you were to
look from the inside out
and say if you're doing it all over again
and you didn't fall into the role like you or I did,
but you were actively trying to get into the role.
Let's say in modern, current day,
how would you recommend that someone with very little
or no experience tries to work their way
towards getting a product role?
What skills maybe should they learn
or how should they look about approaching it?
-: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
So, (clears throat) I think,
yeah, so I think, the way to do this is to really show
that you understand the product management process
and that you're able to apply that process
to a lot of different situations.
So, the process in my mind is (clears throat)
identifying what you think the problem is,
what you think the customer is,
what you think the solution is,
going through this iterative approach
to getting to product market fit,
being able to draw upon a lot of different tools in order to
validate those assumptions.
All those different MVPs that you wanna use.
And I think, that there's a lot of different ways
in which you can demonstrate your understanding of that.
You can go to a hackathon
and work with people and just,
in the span of two days, apply the process.
Or perhaps you work in marketing or you work as an analyst,
you can still get involved in the development process
at least perhaps in the user research part
or the opportunity analysis part.
And so, and that way,
you can then actually structure your resume,
so that it highlights
all of those different steps of the process.
So, as a hiring manager, I can look at it and be like,
okay, they don't have the product manager title,
but they completely get what the five steps are
and they've shown that they've done those steps in the past.
-: Mm-hmm.
Yeah, okay. That's really good.
So, this is some of the advice that I give
and that in terms of yet prepping for the role
is first of all, look internally
is one of the easiest ways obviously,
but if that you're not able to do that
and you're trying to apply somewhere,
then you should look at things you've done
in the past that have to do with product management.
And since it's such a vague and wide-ranging role,
most everyone has done something
that a product manager will do at some point,
like cross-team collaboration
or project management
or coming up with a few different ideas
and finding the best one with data.
Even people in community operations,
customer service, marketing,
people do some things in these roles
that are product management style things.
And then, shape your resume to explain those things.
That's what I'm hearing from you.
-: Yeah, let's say you're an account manager,
you talk to customers all day,
so put together what you think
the product roadmap should look like
and then support
your proposal.
What is the data behind your prioritization?
What is the user research behind your prioritization?
What are the risks and assumptions
that you would wanna validate
for each of the ideas in your roadmap,
so that you would feel confident
that executing those roadmap ideas
would in fact achieve the desired goals.
-: Yeah, absolutely. Okay.
Okay, so just for the last question,
if someone is, let's say, very familiar with the stuff
and they're looking at just,
they're just looking at learning real hard skills.
So, either technology or UX or something like that.
Let's say they're going to take a PM course somewhere
and then they were also gonna go learn a skill.
What skills would you recommend
that people be either really familiar with a technology,
or something that really stands out to me
as being a big benefit on someone's resume.
-: Well, certainly, they're gonna need to understand
just basic agile project management principles.
And so, being able to break things down to user stories
and sprint planning and sprint retros,
and just the mechanics of that.
I think, wire framing is something
that they should be able to do.
They don't need to learn a tool like Sketch or OmniGraffle.
I think, it's fine if you just grab a marker and paper
and just can draw,
but you need to be able to communicate
what you see in your head to other people through pictures.
And then, on the technology side,
I think, people have the most anxiety
about the technology piece,
and what I would tell you is spend some time
understanding how the internet works.
So, if you type a URL
into your browser and click go, what happens?
And you should be able to go really, really deep
on what happens, 10, 15 different steps
between when you hit go
and when the page shows up on your site or on your browser.
And I would not
feel like you need to learn a programming language.
I don't think you need to learn HTML and CSS.
I don't think you need to learn Ruby on Rails.
As much as it is more important,
just learn internet architecture
and just how do web servers work.
-: Yeah, and things like
in the course I talk a lot about
you just need to understand what okay front end is
versus back end and where things are being calculated,
like where the logic is living on the server
or the front end,
or how do things get to your browser or your device.
-: Yeah, and I think, if you want extra credit,
you could probably spend some time learning SQL,
because a lot of times, product managers need data,
and so sometimes they have to go get it themselves,
because there's no data department to do it for them.
-: Right. Awesome.
Okay, so I think, we are just about out time,
'cause we're in different time zones.
You gotta get to work.
But thanks a ton for this.
And yeah, do you have any, I don't know,
websites or Twitter handles or anything,
blogs that you want to pitch as a last thing
for the students that wanna follow you on there?
-: Follow me? Oh.
No. (laughs) I'm not much of a social media person.
No, sorry, I don't.
You can find me on Tumblr at caterpillarcowboy.com,
but it's just my personal blog.
There's nothing on there
that you're gonna learn much from.
-: Yeah, that's good though.
That's what I like hearing, to be honest,
'cause it means you're not on medium
posting those life, health, life advice articles.
-: Yeah.
-: All that,
like a lot of people.
-: Yeah, and I don't know,
Twitter just stopped being exciting for me five years ago,
and so, but here I am.
I'm happy to teach and give back.
-: Cool. All right, well, thanks.
Thanks a bunch, Dave. We really appreciate it.
-: Yeah, you bet.
-: Alrighty. Catch you later.
(upbeat music)

--- Q&A Section 2 (part 1): Introduction to Product Management ---

(lively music)
-: All right, so we're back.
We're gonna do some Q and A.
So there are some questions throughout the last section that
we're gonna talk about and discuss.
Hopefully this will help you guys get a little bit more into
the content, be a little more enriching and whatnot.
So section two, actually,
I'm gonna be asking questions and then we have a couple of
questions from students that have submitted them,
and we'll ask them and then discuss them.
And generally the way these are gonna work is that I'm gonna
be asking the questions because I'm not a product manager,
so I'm just gonna be learning alongside and making sure that
there's nothing we skipped or you guys think is confusing.
All right, cool.
What do you think, Cole?
-: Sounds good.
-: Sweet.
All right guys.
So section two, we talked about,
what do we talk about, pretty much being a product manager,
What are products,
we cover differences in product management,
project versus product.
We talked about the day in the life of a product manager.
So I just wrote down some questions that are, I think,
relevant to that,
relevant to people especially who are interested in becoming
a product manager, getting the job specifically.
Hopefully these are some of the questions
you guys were asking.
These are things that just kind of peaked my interest
as we were going through.
And I'll kind of start from the top.
Okay, so in the first lecture we talked about product,
you know, what is a product manager?
And he, you know, talked about the ambiguity of it,
how you're not a manager,
how you kind of sit in between
so many different circles and whatnot.
And the next lecture we talked about
what exactly is a product.
So one of the questions I had was,
if you're running a service business,
do you have product managers?
How would that work?
You know, cause there's a lot of big companies,
big startups that at the end of the day are,
are actually services.
They might be technology enabled services,
but do you just not have product managers in that case?
(lively music)
-: Yeah, it actually depends on, of course, the business,
like everything else, but I guess
I'll take your question to mean like agency style services,
which is, hey, we need a website or an app,
how much is it gonna cost?
And they give you a quote
and then they do that thing for you.
This is how like marketing agencies
and advertising agencies work,
PR agencies, that sort of stuff.
So is that right?
Is that what you're wanting to know?
Like are there product managers in those situations?
-: Yeah, pretty much.
I mean, an ad agency is a good example, right,
of like a service business.
You're not, whatever they make,
they push off to the customer
and it's made by individual people
and essentially they're hiring people
when you hire an agency.
So, yeah.
-: Yeah.
-: What does the role
look like there?
-: So there is,
historically, there's not a product manager
because I mean, historically,
I mean, you know, in the past there's,
there hasn't been much in terms of product management there,
but there have been project managers
in those businesses because basically when a client says,
Okay, we need to do this,
what happens is they pitch the thing that they would do.
So ad agencies will pitch, okay,
well we're gonna make this website for you,
we're gonna make these ads.
Here's some concepts like you've ever seen
that TV show Mad Men where they,
they basically pitch clients and the clients are like,
We love this.
It's better than the other, you know,
people that are pitching us, so we're gonna hire you.
In that case, everything's pretty much decided beforehand.
So you don't have the scope changing it,
like everything's decided.
So it's a thing for a project manager.
You basically have a budget
and you have a date perfect for project management.
But there is now a trend towards
having product managers at some agencies.
And that's because agencies are now starting
to do a little bit more full service sort of thing.
So they'll say, okay,
we'll make you an app,
but we're not gonna just make it and hand it over.
We're gonna make it and maintain it for you.
And so they now are hiring product managers at some agencies
or some service businesses to basically almost, yeah,
work on it, work as a full-fledged product manager
on an initiative for a company.
-: That sounds incredibly awkward for that product manager.
Like talk about stakeholders because you'd have to manage
the product for an external client that has their own
decision making hierarchy.
-: Well, it's sometimes the agreement is okay,
we're experts in,
if I were the company that was doing the service would say,
look, we're experts in iterating
and looking at metrics and all that.
So these are things that if you're hiring an agency to do,
you're probably not good at,
or maybe you don't know anything
about like app development or whatever.
So they will usually say, like,
the product manager at one of these agencies would say,
hey, okay, we already delivered you the app,
but we're gonna make some changes and make a V2 of it
because we see in the metrics or the way that, you know,
culture is shaping up lately that we can improve it by doing
this and this or we're gonna do it.
And it's usually not like an approval thing,
like they have to ask the client every single time.
It's more like an implicit like agreement beforehand that
okay, for like a one year period, we're gonna main,
we're gonna build this first and we're gonna maintain it
and improve it consistently.
And of course we'll provide you with reports
on how we're doing it,
but there's not usually like a decision sort of hierarchy
that has to be gone through every single time.
-: Okay, cool.
All right, so moral the story students
is that Don Draper is not a product manager
if anybody watches Mad Men.
-: Exactly.
-: We had a madman reference in the course.
-: Yes, we did.
-: Yeah, for those of you guys who saw that there was,
when I first saw the image come up,
I thought it was just like an old rich family.
And then, you know,
it took me a couple seconds and then I realized like,
Oh wait, it's the ad agency from Mad Men.
If you haven't seen Mad Men,
it probably didn't make any sense.
Let's see, okay, and so in the lecture,
what is a product?
This is a question that I was kind of asking myself,
or at least I didn't have clarity on this.
So we were saying that product can be anything, right?
It could be a button, it could be a feature,
it could be an entire page.
And that the term of product is very liberal, right?
And it's very kind of amorphous and it's really more or less
decided based on the importance of whatever is in your
broader product or broader platform.
I was just curious because you guys often work on teams,
so I was curious, how does that break down?
Do you have, you know, you might, let's say you have
a product team on,
you can use that Twitter example of a product team that
focuses on the sharing options of a tweet, right?
But then do you have,
does it go up to a higher team that's in charge of the,
you know, Twitter tweets in general than the higher team?
That's the Twitter timeline and then the higher team,
which is like, you know, the best product managers.
Like how exactly does the hierarchy in groups work?
(lively music)
-: So yeah, like every other question, it depends,
but I can give you some actual like,
real life examples and tell you about a couple arrangements.
Okay, so, first of all,
there's some companies that structure,
usually smaller companies that structure product management
around platforms, so there will be a team
and a product manager in charge of like Android and iOS,
or just Android,
another one in charge of iOS
and then another one in charge of the website.
And that's usually becomes pretty inefficient as you get
much larger because you have teams that are not usually in
sync and your Android app might end up looking different
from your iOS app because the teams are not the same teams
working on the two different features across those two apps.
So what you end up getting is these things called
feature teams, which we've talked about in the course.
And that's, you know, like you're saying, it's a,
okay, I am a product manager
in charge of let's say Facebook's newsfeed.
I'm also in charge of it on, you know,
iOS on web and on Android as well.
And those teams usually have engineers and designers
that own all of the, you know,
the design around the newsfeed on all platforms
and then also the backend systems
that run those things on all platforms.
So there is like, what you're getting at here is like,
how are those teams like in terms of hierarchy of teams,
Is there one?
And yeah, a lot of times there is,
so you will have, as another Facebook example,
you will have like someone in charge of all of the newsfeed
in general, right?
This is probably like a director of product,
director of product newsfeed or something.
And then you have product managers, not directors,
but just normal product managers and product
and their feature teams
that are working underneath that person.
So one product manager for let's say video in the feed
and another one for the ranking algorithm
with their team and then another one for advertisements
in the newsfeed and so forth.
I don't know if those are the exact teams
that they would have,
but like they do sometimes have these hierarchies together
and it depends on the company,
but they do group 'em up and usually
those groups are overseen
by what's called either like a product lead or a
group lead group product manager or a director.
And then, you know,
then even directors get managed by VPs at really large
companies by like Google for instance.
They have so many different products that like they have
chief product officer and,
and then Senior Vice Presidents and then Vice Presidents
and then directors, and then group leads and anyways,
but yeah, they do have hierarchy.
It just depends how big the company is
and you know who the company is.
-: Yeah.
How do you guys, let's say the,
in the case of you have a product manager who is in charge
of, we'll go back to Facebook, you said on the newsfeed,
who's in charge of the algorithm
for what displays in your newsfeed, right?
Like something really pretty granular and he just owns that
space and then you have a product manager who is in charge
of the broader newsfeed.
Does it happen a lot that you guys have disagreements?
Because one person,
I mean ownership in that case
is very kind of tenuous, right?
Like one person might, since he's the algorithm guy,
he might have very strong opinion about the algorithm,
whereas the person above him, you know,
is trying to take a broader picture approach.
How do you guys reconcile differences like that?
-: Yeah, that is this,
this kind of goes into something that I go into
with the career section of the course,
which is when you become a product manager somewhere,
if you ever have a boss that is flat out
telling you what to do as a product manager,
then you're not a product manager.
There are some cases when you are, you know,
a junior or associate product manager and the decision
making power of like, what should we do next?
You know, with all of these expensive resources
of the company, the engineers and designers
is a very serious decision.
And so you as a product manager
are told what to build or what to accomplish,
but you can kind of approach it in the best way possible.
But in in general,
that's about as like prescriptive as it gets
as a product manager.
So if you are a product manager, you,
it is up to you and your team of what to do.
Otherwise it's against the nature of the position.
And so if you do have these sorts of disagreements,
then there can be disagreements, that's fine,
but there should never be a directors
for instance that says, no, don't do that thing, right?
The best directors or the best managers or group leads,
are going to not ever say no to you as a product manager
on what you guys wanna do with your team.
But they'll ask you if they know
that it'S the wrong thing to do,
they'll ask you questions that will lead you in the
direction of knowing that, okay,
maybe this is not the right thing to do.
And then the other part of that,
the other side of that is that,
as we've talked about in the course,
there are goals that are set up for the company.
So there should be very few disagreements because you know,
if your company has a goal that's like, okay,
you want to increase user retention by 5% and then you want
to increase new users by 10%,
then it's kind of a narrow window of stuff to do in there.
Whereas if you don't have any goals at all,
like you could do anything.
So there's a lot of room for disagreement
on what you should do.
But if it's like, hey,
increase retention by 5% for everyone in product this year
or everyone that's working on the product,
those are our two main goals,
then there's less room for disagreement,
if that makes sense.
-: Yeah,
I mean I guess it'd just be at that point disagreements
about how to get to that goal, right?
-: Right, but you as a PM again,
your whole job result revolves around
proving it through data, right?
So you're never guessing
and if you're guessing you're not doing your job,
but you want to prove it and have indisputable proof,
quantitative proof and qualitative research proof
because you are again,
the expert on the user and the expert on the product
and you've done the research, that's your whole job.
-: Got it.
Yeah, okay.
So the next question I had was,
when you're describing kind of the dynamic
between teams, right?
So you'd say that sometimes
you have a product manager on one individual feature page
or product,
but then also sometimes you have teams.
I'm kind of curious,
how do you guys delineate work within
the product manager teams,
so let's say you have five people on one thing.
Like what are you guys doing on an individual day?
You all doing the same thing and fluidly coordinating,
or is it more the case that within the group of five
you guys have set, you know, distinct roles?
(lively music)
-: Well, the term product team
is not a team of product managers.
It's like a product manager
and designers and developers and you know,
depending on the company,
maybe a data scientist or something like this.
But then you,
so that's also called a feature team sometimes.
And that makes sense because it's usually a team working on
a specific feature.
But, you do have,
if you use the the term like a normal English product team,
a team of product people,
it goes back to that first question, which is,
which is it's usually led by a group,
group lead or a director.
And yeah,
they do usually have narrow slices of features
to work on or user behaviors to work on improving.
So there's very little like stepping on toes
I guess you might say.
But there does need to be like communication
between the teams because
one team might change something in one area
that changes something in another area.
And so they need to,
you know, say, okay, this is what we're doing, this is why,
here's all the research,
talk to the other product team and the other product manager
and say, you know,
we wanna get your approval on this before we do this thing
because it's gonna affect your future.
And that happens all the time.
It's a big part of product management is just communicating
and approving and this sort of thing.
-: Okay, cool.
Yeah, kind of sounds like a taking a little,
literally I for some reason thought that it was like a group
of product managers all hanging out in one group.
So you're saying it's more of a,
it's a product team, right.
Okay, so let's see,
when we talked about what kind of PM you wanna be,
it seems like you kept alluding over and over
to the fact that some of them
are in general easier than the others.
And specifically you said that B to B or
it appears that you kind of are implying that B to B PMs
have a easier job.
Is that something you generally would say,
and what metric are you kind of
using to evaluate easiness versus hard?
(lively music)
-: So I wouldn't actually say that one is easier than another
because they all have their difficulties, right?
They all have their like pain points.
It's, but I do mention
that like consumer product managers usually
do really well under like uncertain pressure,
where things are not always certain because you don't
actually know if you're doing your job right,
you're building stuff that's like innovative and,
and you know, take Snapchat for instance.
They are building stuff that like literally has not been
seen before in terms of social media applications,
and media sharing and and connection between people.
So they're trying to like invent new
this new paradigm and keep iterating on it,
keep making it the coolest and the best thing.
And that's a lot of pressure because they're having to be
really creative and test a bunch of new stuff that,
and it's stuff that even users out there don't really know
that they want until they try it.
And that's the kind of pressure you get
uncertain sort of creative pressure,
but it doesn't mean that it's necessarily harder,
or easier than like a B to B product manager.
Because while you have less uncertainty
with business to business because you know,
a business will tell you exactly what features they want you
to build, you know,
in order to renew their contract next year,
you have a lot of other types of pressure like from
sales deadlines and you know,
navigating complex hierarchies, you know,
the corporate world of the people you're selling to
and making sure that you understand
that the differences between
the customer and the user,
like we've talked about
or like we talk about in the course quite a bit.
So, and even internal product management
is also difficult because you have
a different type of pressure on top of that,
which is,
although it's more certain what you need to build because
your coworkers are there,
or your marketing team or customer service or whoever needs
the thing you're building is saying exactly
what they need, what kind of functionality they need.
You have other sorts of pressures,
like you have limitations on the types of technology
that you have implemented at your company
and like you have limitations on the budget
for the maybe a new tool you need
to purchase in order to get the data
from one place to another.
And then you have the,
you have to navigate the approval hierarchy internally
at your own company to change these processes.
So it's, they've all got their difficulties.
They're not any much,
some of them are not harder than others,
but for beginner product managers,
I think the one with like the least distractions
are gonna be the internal product manager
and the business to business role
because it's just a little more cut and dry.
But the consumer role is probably the most common one.
-: Well kind of what I picked up was that it's,
there's two dimensions that make one of the,
or make them more tricky or less tricky.
And that was one the size of your user base, right?
So internally your user base might be 10 people, right?
Or then if you're at B to B
it could be hundreds of people
and then if you're at B to C it could be millions.
And then the second element was your ability
to talk to them.
Like internally you walk down the hall, B to B, you know,
you can schedule a meeting with them and then B to C,
you know, you can only talk to so many,
the feedback loop with your customers can only be so tight
and it's easier to establish a feedback loop internally
or with a customer that's on contract with you already.
Is that a fair enough assessment?
-: Yeah, so that is true.
Business to consumer is gonna have
the highest potential number of users
and you can't possibly talk to them all,
of course depends how successful your product is,
how many people are using it.
But, yeah, there's companies like Salesforce
that are business to business
and they have potentially millions of users out there,
but they don't have millions of clients.
Actually, I don't know how many clients
they have in terms of companies that are paying them money.
I would imagine it's hundreds and hundreds of thousands,
maybe in the low millions, but it's not, you know,
a hundred million 'cause there's not a hundred million
companies out there just to buy it, right?
But there's a hundred million Twitter users,
at least in fact over 300 at this point.
But you get when you,
when you're doing like a, yeah B to B for instance,
at a volume like Salesforce,
you still get, when someone is paying you money,
a lot of money usually for software, they're a little more,
you're in contact with them,
you got their email addresses,
you got all of all of the stuff,
you can reach out and schedule meetings with, you know,
people that are frustrated or people that usually just,
they're happy to say, yeah,
I'll tell you what I like or what I don't like.
But, it's not quite as easy
when you are a consumer product manager
because users are not super interested
in talking to you unless
they're super passionate about the the service
or like product you have.
They're just kind of using it like, you know,
how how many people do you think out there
are like using Twitter
and then also really, really, really wanting to go,
you know, do a user test for Twitter.
Like some people just use it and they use it.
They're not super crazy about it.
-: Yeah, I was gonna say I almost think that the,
in B to C, the more passionate they are,
it almost degrades the quality of their response, right?
Like in Twitter,
the angriest people and the most passionate people
on Twitter are the worst people to talk to.
They're just the typo machines that don't make any sense.
They probably support Donald Trump for president
and they're just, it's like,
I always think at Twitter like a hundred,
it's like a hundred million kindergartners
and you have to round them all up.
So I would imagine that's a problem.
-: That's actually, there is a thing that happens with,
you know, user bases and in B to C
and that is the more passionate someone is about
giving you feedback.
You're kind of doing a filter there
like a filter bubble and like,
hey, there's the people that actually email you
or that actually like give you that feedback willingly
without asking are people
that have a certain usage behavior,
they usually are really, really big users of your product.
And so sometimes if you're trying to make your product more
usable for a super casual person
yeah, then you are,
you don't wanna talk to the super engaged users as much
because you're not building features for them
'cause they clearly already understand it.
Actually, that's funny because Twitter
has actually that problem right now.
I don't know in terms of their user feedback,
but I know that like they need to move
to a more casual user base because
they've pretty much saturated the market of people that
understand the complexity of Twitter today,
but they wanna make it more casual
for like your more casual users
that are never created a Twitter account
or not really interested
in chronological feed of tweets and that sort of thing.
And so they have to do research on the casual users
and the casual users
are not really sending emails to Twitter
about what they think.
-: Yeah, I mean Facebook has that problem too,
but there's like an order of magnitude worse
where it's not like the new user's Facebook
has to get are people that are,
like places where they just got electrification, you know,
or they don't have internet.
And so you have to think of the super casual one
who's learning how to use the computer
while also learning how to make a Facebook account.
-: Yeah, they have completely different habits.
And actually a little like fun bit of knowledge about
these users that, you know, Facebook is now going,
like you said, to the countries
that are much more underdeveloped,
and they lack certain things, but they all have,
a lot of them have smartphones or at least semis smartphones
and they even have an app called Facebook Light,
which is designed for phones
that are underpowered so to speak.
But they also,
the interesting nugget is that it is more common
in these other countries to have a phone number
as an identifier and not an email address.
So you think that like asking someone for an email address,
you know, as a login is a pretty reasonable thing.
But it turns out that a lot of underdeveloped countries
are developing countries,
email addresses are like non-existent.
No one uses 'em,
what they use is SMS through text messages
and like your sim card is basically your identity.
So, you know, Facebook has
to do login by phone number in those cases,
which is interesting.
-: Yeah, yeah, that makes sense.
Yeah, it's an entirely different group of people
with different behaviors
and we both know the worst thing you can do is
pull a market in. (laughs)
And do you see those Twitter comments like referencing
colonialism as a reason why-
-: Yeah.
-: Doesn't have a Facebook user?
Is that what it was?
-: Yeah, very unfortunate thing for him to say,
especially publicly is
-: Wait, yeah.
-: Not a very sensitive comment by him, for sure.
-: If for you guys at home don't know who this is,
he's a very well known venture capitalist.
He was originally the founder of Netscape
and he has no filter.
He just kind of says whatever he wants
and Twitter has become his enabler for him
saying crap that he really needs to rethink.
Yeah, you guys should follow him if you want
to occasionally see flame wars in the tech community.

--- Q&A Section 2 (part 2): Introduction to Product Management ---

-: Let's see. All right
let's move on a little bit.
Let's talk about your job a little bit more.
One question I had was
how much of your job do you think is listening?
And then how much do you think is actual work
like working on some-
I know you could say listening is work
but I'm gonna draw the line between, you know, listening
sitting there talking to people about problems or hearing
other departments and actually wire framing or actually
working on specs or something like that.
I mean, it reminds me kind of
of venture capitalists often refer to themselves
as professional listeners.
And so I was kind of curious
how do you think that works as a PM?
-: There's actually kind of a joke, I guess
in the PM community that we're like
professional email archivers.
That is kind of true
and I even mention it in the course
which is, you spend a lot of your time in email
and just other forms of information. Looking at slide decks
looking at metrics, looking at
if you have like a interoffice chat
like Slack or something.
You're just absorbing information
or listening, like you say, a ton.
And that's a huge, huge part of the job.
But even more important than that
is then you take in all this information
you kind of store it in your head and you synthesize it
based on the other information that you have from whatever
other teams and then you see, okay
well what does that mean for the stuff that we're doing?
And then you communicate it back out. Like I said
you're the communications hub and the enabler.
So sales says something, marketing says something
the executives and strategy people say something
then another product team says something.
Then you get some new metrics from another team that did a
study on something. You read and hear all of this.
You think about what does it mean for our team
and our product and our goals.
And then you basically turn around and communicate that back
out to your team on
okay, here's what this means for our team.
But then you communicate it back out to those other teams
and say, ah okay, so now
we're gonna angle ourselves in this direction to kind of
connect with the goals
that you guys are working on right now.
So there's tons of this back and forth.
I would say it's a huge, huge, huge part of the job.
I would say this communicating and listening thing is
it's like 60% of your time.
It's not all, you know, doing fun wire frames and
that sort of thing. It's a lot of analysis
but it's actually, I find it pretty fun.
You get to talk to new people all the time.
The day's never the same and lots of different mediums of
information that you get to look at.
-: Yeah. Okay.
So 60%
so those of you guys who hate listening, don't become a PM.
You also probably have bigger problems in your life if you
hate listening, but one of them is, don't become a PM
Hey, one question I had.
So when we were doing day in the life of a PM
you said that you are constantly hopping along all of your
social signals, as in reading Facebook comments
reading people who mention you on Twitter
looking at your app store reviews and things like that.
How often are you kind of stepping on the toes of
your communications people? 'Cause you know
traditionally in business structures, you have directors of
communication and that's one of the things they do is they
kind of regulate the conversation between customers and the
reviews and the company, you know, and that's usually like
what are your interns gonna do while they're not
Snapchatting? Isn't that what traditionally interns do?
They just read your Facebook posts
and delete people who say racist things?
-: So there, yeah, that's a good question because
okay look, if you're at a really small company
there's usually
usually you're the one getting product feedback.
So you'll have like a product feedback email address
or something, and it just goes straight to you
if you're one of the only product managers or the only
product manager, or if you're the CEO or you're a founder
product feedback is coming straight to you
but also the customer service email
like the technical support or depending on the company
you know, payment issues or whatever, all of that stuff
you're also getting that. But as you grow as a company
you do get like these teams, these communities
operations teams or customer service teams.
And the tricky thing is, here's a piece of advice
if you are looking to be a product manager
or are one already
you never want to completely remove yourself
from user feedback.
So, as an example, at the company I work at, SoundCloud
we do have tons and thousands of people that email us.
And you know, some of it is product feedback, some of it is
hey, can you help me reset my password sort of thing.
And community, the community team does give us broad
feedback based on, okay
well there was this many requests for this feature
and this many for this other feature.
But if you're not careful
you can just
you can make it too macro.
You don't want to be in a position as a product manager
where you're not yourself
literally yourself with your team and your designer talking
to the users. So no matter how comfortable it gets
even at Facebook
they get literally tens and tens and tens of thousands
of feedback, you know, feature requests
or bug reports every day.
And there's no way product managers can sit there
and look at all of that.
So they have systems that aggregate all of that.
Or like we see with later in the course
with the interview with Daniel
he worked at Google and they had artificial intelligence or
machine learning systems that would basically like bubble up
the top pieces of feedback
for the product managers to look at
but they were not able to look at the actual
sentences from those users or actually talk to those users.
So in that case, even still product managers
and their teams really need to make an effort to bring users
into the office or go out into the, you know
streets basically, get out of the building
and talk to users.
Just one-on-one, face-to-face
and the way I do some of that
obviously we do that as well at SoundCloud.
We have user testing and talk to users
do interviews with them and that sort of thing.
Like you talk about later in the course, Evan.
But we also, myself, like I mentioned
I also make an effort to just go on Twitter
and tweet at people and say, hey
thanks for the feedback.
What do you think about this?
Or why would you use that feature? And this sort of thing.
So you always wanna mix.
So you never want to remove yourself
from the actual feedback itself.
-: Okay.
Let's see.
Oh
this is a question.
Are you required to fast during work and do you just work
with like the skinniest people?
For you guys who didn't notice this
during the day in the life of a PM
he didn't mention lunch, which I thought was interesting.
Do you just never eat?
-: Yeah, when I was making my notes for that lecture
I totally forgot about lunch, but I do.
I do eat lunch and yeah, it's usually quite good.
But yeah, I eat lunch
but if you're a real good product manager
you'll never eat, ever.
In fact, you'll never even leave the office.
-: Yeah. That's cool
-: So that's something to aspire to, I guess.
-: (chuckles) I usually just assume that you eat lunch
at a reclaimed wood standing desk
with your left hand, you know, has a fork
and your right hand has your Twitter account.
You just never stop working.
-: That's not too far from the truth.
In fact, sometimes I just sit there
and watch feedback come in from the app store
or Twitter while I'm eating on my screen.
You know, why not?
-: Wow. Yeah, that's dedication.
Let's see.
Well I had a question about sprint plannings.
Yeah.
So you talked about running sprints with your team
and I was kind of curious
what exactly is your role during sprint planning
and how exactly do you influence the group?
Because traditionally in a sprint, you know
you have developers, designers, a QA person
and often a project manager
or someone who's in charge of the business requirements
and they all have individual things that they work on.
And they all have the technical expertise to do that.
And typically during a sprint plan
you're planning out what stories
if you're doing XP
or what
what is it, I don't even remember what Scrum calls them
what exactly you're gonna be doing during the sprint.
And part of that requires that you know, for instance
adding this feature is a big deal, right?
And so we should put this later or knowing that there are
dependencies between the tasks and things like that.
So how do you get around the fact that you can't influence
people on those technical decisions, yet you know
you are definitely part of the sprint planning process.
-: Yeah.
So for those of you that aren't familiar with sprints
and sprint planning and all of that
we're gonna talk about that later in the course.
We have a whole section on, you know, actually Agile
and Scrum and what sprints are
and all of that sort of thing.
-: Think it's next section actually, yeah.
-: Yeah, okay so
basically sprints are, yeah, the time
it's a time box, usually like two weeks
where you divide your work into
as a team, you say okay
in this next two weeks we're gonna do these things.
And sprint planning is the meeting that you'll hold
basically every two weeks in order to plan and basically
kick off that sprint.
Sometimes they're called sprint kickoffs or whatever.
We call them sprint planning.
And what you're usually doing in there is
well, sometimes you can combine them with another type of
thing called a retrospective
which you'll learn about also in that section, but
there's not a set rule book for these.
And so I can just tell you how I've always approached them
and how my teams like to do them.
And that is basically like we go in and we talk about how
things are going, you know, how the last sprint went
which is part of the retrospective process.
And then we talk about, then usually after we all talk
about that together usually the engineers will bring up
some maybe difficulties
or challenges they're facing on the technical side or maybe
everything's going really smoothly and they don't.
At that point, you as a product manager
and with your designer, your UX person
You're usually trying to basically set expectations for
what's gonna come up in this next sprint
but also the sprint after that
and even the sprint after that because you have to, again
you have to scope and estimate things
that you're not working on yet.
And usually you can do that sort of thing at sprint planning
so let's say we're doing a project.
We'll call it project A. That's gonna take four weeks to do
which is two sprints.
Well, in the middle of those four weeks
we might start talking about
okay, while we're going through project A
we might actually start talking about project B
which is the next one coming up
the two weeks after that
or even four weeks out.
And the purpose of that is that you basically bring data
and then you show the engineers
and the rest of your team and the engineering manager even
and say, hey, here's these users we've interviewed
and they've talked about this problem.
Here's the metrics and the data
and here's the customer feedback.
And you know, the designer and myself have
made up six different potential solutions
and we've tested them and this is what we're looking at.
What do you guys think?
Is this feasible from the architectural side?
So it's all of this.
This is where a lot of the team cohesion comes in
and you never want to, I talk about this later
in the career section actually
you never wanna treat engineers like an agency.
You don't wanna just say, here's what we're doing
go do this. You want to get their input
because a lot of times they'll be able to tell you, hey
well if we just do this one thing or use this other database
over here, we could actually do this.
If that would be easier. And then we would say, oh my God.
Yeah, that might be great and we'll go test that instead.
So you wanna bring them in on the process as early as
possible and just ask them what they think because a lot of
them actually are really into the product as well.
And then besides that
you're just doing a lot of estimation and scoping for stuff
that's pretty far out. So yeah
the stuff you're working on now
the stuff you just got done working on
but then also sort of
setting the place basically for what's coming up.
-: Cool. Okay.
I had one quick question before we get to student questions.
You can, I hope, hopefully this is a quick answer.
Do you suggest people learn SQL?
-: Yes, I do suggest it.
It's not absolutely mandatory.
Depending on the company you work at
you potentially won't have to do any SQL queries.
We'll talk about this later in the course by the way
what SQL is.
SQL is a query language, basically, to query a SQL database.
And the most common SQL databases is like my SQL or MySQL.
And so this query language, SQL
it's just a way of typing out stuff in order to get data
from a database so you can
query what are called tables in a database and understand
how you can take a database of people
of users over here in a database of
user IDs and then couple that with the amount of money
they've paid maybe or products they've purchased.
And you put all that together and do analysis on it.
But I do recommend you learn it.
It's just not absolutely the first thing you should do
if you're getting right into product management.
But if you do learn it
or if you're already an engineer
or a technical marketer and you know it
it is gonna be a huge benefit for you.
And it takes a lot of load off people like data scientists
and engineers when you can go get the data yourself
from the database and
-: Not bug your developers all the time. Yeah.
-: Exactly. Super useful, will do you tons of favors.
I would say if you're gonna be good at one thing
technically as a product manager
SQL and just data analysis is gonna be awesome.
-: Okay. Cause I mean
the reason why I ask is I just think
it's on top of mind for a lot of our students because
Udemy pushes SQL courses really strongly.
It's like the least technical, technical language out there.
It's probably the easiest to learn
and you can learn it pretty quickly.
So it was a question that I saw
that a lot of people have been asking.
All right, so let's hop to student questions.
Hey guys at home, so if you guys wanna send us questions
feel free to.
You can post your questions in the group discussion or what
you can do, if you want us to actually feature the question
send us a video of you asking a question.
And that's what we're gonna go through right now.
All you gotta do is just take your phone
point it at your face and ask us a question
and we will put it up here and address it.
So if you guys wanna do that
just private message one of us
and we'll set it up.
All right, so we got a question
from one of our students here.
-: Hey guys, I'm Jack and I've got a question for you.
From a product management standpoint
what do you think about Twitter?
I like the activity. I never realized just
how much junk there actually is on Twitter
that possibly no one ever uses, you know
all these people contacting you and they just want to
sell things that are a bit sordid that you don't wanna see.
What do you think is going on there?
Maybe the team doesn't agree on anything, you know?
I don't know, but
I'd love to hear your thoughts on that, please.
-: All right, cool.
So we got a Twitter hater. What's up?
-: All right, so Twitter is an interesting company.
I talked about 'em a little bit earlier
but for those of you who don't know where they've started
they were, I believe they were even
they were a different company first
and they pivoted into Twitter.
-: It was Odeo. Yeah, they were a podcast listing service.
-: Yeah. So then actually they became a
like the very first iteration of Twitter itself was like a
text message update thing where you could basically text
message a number and it would set your Twitter status
right? And so there was no web interface
it was just over text message.
-: Was it just for keeping groups of friends updated
with what you're doing?
-: Yeah, exactly.
It was that sort of thing and it then expanded
pretty rapidly, you know, from there.
But, they've come a long way.
But not to be too lengthy with this answer
'cause it could go on forever, obviously but
they have a very useful tool that has turned into
basically one of the most instantaneous sources
of information on the planet basically
and very useful for all sorts of stuff from business to
politics and activism and this sort of thing.
Really, really cool.
But the thing that they have been struggling with
and you might have seen the news in the last couple years
where their user numbers are plateauing and people
aren't using it as much. And that is asymptomatic
of them saturating this market that I already talked about
which is like the really active users
and they need to become more accessible for casual users.
And so they're doing a couple things.
Well first of all
they had their CEO removed, Dick Costello
and then Jack came back.
Jack, one of the original founders, came back.
-: And he came back with the beard.
The beard is back.
What?
Did you see that?
When he came back he just has like a lumberjack beard.
But anyway, what you were saying.
-: Yeah, so Jack came back
and trying to instill some product change and
kind of bringing it back to its roots and make it
more accessible for casual users.
And so they've implemented these features like moments
and they've implemented better direct messaging
and character limits are removed in direct messaging
and they've added, you know, photos and GIFs
and direct messaging and the most recent
controversial change is the ranking of the Twitter timeline
and they're doing it slowly
but this is the same thing that Facebook did and they did it
quite early and they've done a good job of it 'cause they've
done it for so long.
But I don't know if you remember
if you've been on Facebook this long
but there was a time when people were really scared
of Facebook doing ranking to the newsfeed.
In fact, there were people angry about the newsfeed
when it first came out too.
So you're always gonna have your core users that are upset
about changes, but if you do it correctly
you handle it correctly, then they end up saying
oh, well it's not so bad.
Instagram is actually doing the same thing now.
I mean it's getting so popular and so hard to use for casual
people that once you start following tons of people
it's like almost impossible to keep up with it.
So they're trying to show you the best content first
and Twitter's starting to do this and we'll see how it goes.
But overall, I think they have a storied history
a little bit of difficulty
some rocky points there with the executives
and the product management
and now they're kind of trying to get it back in shape.
-: Yeah.
I mean I didn't even know that about the ranking on Twitter.
I don't use Twitter very often at all.
Do they rank it visually?
Like you can see that there's some marker that says it's the
top or you just mean organically
like the top ones just float to the top?
-: It's, yeah, there's no visual.
It's just the same as Facebook so, right.
You know, and it's not even fully implemented.
They're testing it in a lot of areas.
In fact you had to opt in to it at first
but instead of just saying literally the top of your screen
is the last person that tweeted that you follow, now it's
gonna be okay, if I'm gone for a week and I log into Twitter
seven days later
I'm gonna have to scroll back a long way to see who tweeted
something five days ago if I wasn't online.
And that's the kind of friction that casual users are
not really into.
They don't wanna have to be on it every single day.
So what they're doing is saying
oh well, when you log in in seven days
we'll show you this one tweet that was really great
that you missed from five days ago.
We know you're interested in it because you've clicked on
this person's stuff a lot
and you've talked to them through direct message.
And so they rank all of these things
just like Facebook does.
They'll show that to you first so you can feel like you've
not missed out even though you haven't been logging in
you know, every hour for every day.
-: Yeah. So you think that's a good product decision?
-: Yeah, it's an interesting one.
They could do some other things as well but
they have to go that path.
But, the thing here is that you can't
anger the people who want a chronological feed
or instant access to a pure chronological stream of stuff
because some people, you know
news agencies or whoever, they want to get the very latest
and they don't want algorithms like sort of messing that up.
So you always have to be careful with your users in this
sense and either give them that in some other way or
or just, you know
enable them to turn it off or something.
So, you do gotta be careful.
-: Yeah. That's interesting, 'cause it does kind of
grate against the ethos of Twitter
or at least how they came up. Right?
'Cause a lot of people think of it as
democratization.
Any little person, even if you have a hundred followers
has the chance to tweet something that someone can see.
Right? That's why it's so good for social movement.
Tons and tons of people at the bottom saying something
will get attention.
Yeah. So that's interesting.
All right, well, okay, so that wraps it up guys.
If you have questions, shoot us a message.
If you have any feedback or comments on doing these QAs
let us know. Next Saturday we're gonna do section three.
So make sure by then you guys send us what you want
or what you wanna discuss.
-: All right everybody, thanks a bunch.
We'll catch you later.

--- Bonus Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
