

=== Boost your skills as a hiring manager to form a great team ===


--- The Trap of the Employee Mindset to Avoid for Career Breakthrough ---

You know what is the biggest threat?
It's cold.
What can you guess for executive?
You guessed right.
It's actually employee mindset.
So it's an employee mindset.
Always think about I'm going to just work harder and work more and more and more.
But that is not going to get you to an executive table or a leader position in our organization.
Why is it not a fact?
Let me break it down and I'm going to quote you up in the session.
Many professionals think that working hard, just doing all the tasks regularly and creating the great
quality of the task will get them to leadership positions.
But that is not the fact.
Let me share with you a couple of insights to make you understand.
How wrong is that?
The research is coming out from Harvard Business Review.
Is this 74% of the professionals stuck in a very early management level positions that all their life,
because they just don't develop a proper executive mindset.
And another insight is coming from the McKinsey.
Is this 92% of the executives coming from fortune 500 companies say this one.
They see the carrier breakthrough into the carrier when they stop thinking like an employee and start
thinking like a CEO.
Let's do a scenario discussion.
Right now we have we're going to talk about two executives.
The first one is Mark.
He's a hard working professionals.
So Mark worked extra hours to complete every task perfectly.
He always wait for approval before making the decisions.
He avoided the risk and he liked to play safe.
He is going to the same position for five years and waiting for a promotion.
On the other side we have Miss Mona, who has an executive thinker.
So what is she really doing?
She is constantly looking for big picture goals.
Well, she is also looking for her task to get them done as well.
She makes bold decisions and she takes the ownership of the result.
She built Relationship with key decision maker and constantly provide them the right input to make even
better decisions and worse, to happen to her.
She got promoted to a VP role in just three years period of time, and we moved to department in high
performance department.
So what is the key difference between Mona and Mark?
One thing the mindset and the mindset.
Mona adopted is about the executive thinker mindset.
So now the question is about how can we move from an employee thinking to an executive thinking?
I'm going to give you five key different shifts you can work on right now moving forward, which can
get you up to get ready for this mindset shift from employee thinking to an executive thinking in the
next coaching session.
So let's get ready for that.


=== Congratulations! ===


--- Lead Yourself First: 7 Strategies to Unlock Your Leadership Potential ---

Today we're going to talk about as a professionals or an entrepreneur, how you can manage yourself.
You want to manage yourself.
You want to make your potential to be successful, right?
So there's a lot of things you are doing already in your life in, in the work and outside of work.
So in this video, I'm going to give you seven things that will give you seven guidelines so you can
make the best of yourself by managing yourself in the best possible way.
So this is a great tactics I have learned from multiple reading, multiple books, and I practice in
my life for several years, and I find it's a really, really impactful.
And today I'm going to share with you on that.
Right.
So let's get started.
Number one, what are your strengths?
Define yourself.
What is your strengths inside of your job?
So think about it.
As an entrepreneur, what are your key strengths you've been focusing about?
You need to focus.
Find out your top three or top five strengths and need to be improving them.
Because there's no point trying to spend a lot of time on your on your weaknesses.
Because if you spend a lot of time, you will probably improve in your Improving weaknesses to a mediocre
level.
But if you really focus on your strength about improving them, you could be a world class on that aspect.
So it's very much important that you find out what are your strengths and you invest on them to improve
them.
That is the tip number one.
Number two, how do you perform?
This is really, really crucial as an entrepreneur.
How you are performing your day to day is matter most.
How you manage your day, how you schedule the thing, how you talk to the people as a professionals,
how you talk to your team members, how you report to your boss, how do you report to your company?
How do you understand the product?
How much time do you do you spend with your team that will all come to your performance?
How do you create the result of your work?
So these are going to be matters.
So you'll be always should be measuring those those things how you how much how how how.
And then you will find out set up a benchmark over time and or in the beginning.
And then you should be setting up a second benchmark, which is higher than your present benchmark.
And you find a way, by learning from other people and mentoring, getting getting a mentor to go to
the next level.
So this is like a it's like a step by step.
You should be improving yourself to define how much you really perform.
Number three, what are your values as a person, as a professional, as an entrepreneur?
You need to have your own core values like me.
My core values is about positively impact.
Everything I want to do is about I want to improve it.
This is my thing.
Operating something is cool, but improving something is much more exciting for me.
So that's why I like to go and change what it is.
I want to change more capacity.
I'd like to improve that one.
I want to take things to the next level.
So this is my positive impact.
So anything I do or any company I work for, I work for or RMIT, I work for Medical Corporation.
Every time I went there, it was always my mind about how do I improve that?
How do I take this, take this present situation to the better situation.
So you got to have your own personal value too.
You need to ask yourself and take that personal value out of you, and then you need to focus about
it.
And you really use this personal value in your favor by intentionally so that we can help you to manage
yourself a lot more because you'll be able to manage your expectations, manage your direction, manage
your energy as well too.
With that number four, where do you belong?
You need to think about in an organization as an entrepreneur or as a as a professional, where do you
belong?
You need to think about your belong to sell.
So you belong to marketing, or you belong to leaderships or you belong to administrations.
You need to be where do you really belong to in this?
In this organization?
What values do you bring, which part you are into it?
And then you think about, are you a high performer?
Are you a mid performer?
Are you a low performer?
You need to figure out where do you belong.
And as soon as you see that which which level you are performing, your goal will be to make a plan
to move from that level to the next level.
If you're a top performer, your plan should be how you stays on the top performing platform.
So that's why you got to where do you belong in terms of performance?
Then you forget about go to the next level.
So where do you belong?
In an organization?
And then where do you where do you belong in a performance graph and your your plan need to always start
from realizing where you are, because if you don't estimate yourself, you don't know where to improve.
So that's why it's very important.
Number five, what should you contribute?
What should you contribute to your team particularly?
So you should be asking yourself what should you contribute your role?
What should you contribute to your team?
What should you contribute to your team members?
What should you contribute to your company, and what should you contribute to your customer?
And if you can answer this, this, all this thing, and then you will be able to make a plan for each
of them.
And that will really help you out to be a really self-managing, great, proactive and productive,
effective professionals, or even an entrepreneur.
So this is this is the question you need to do.
Number six, take responsibility of a relationship.
We have relationship with your with your colleagues.
You have to take responsibility of that one.
You need to take care of it.
Your relationships with your customer.
Probably you need to take responsibility of to take care of that one.
You have responsibility outside of your work with your family.
Let's say your boyfriend, girlfriend, husband, wife, kids.
You take responsibility of that.
I want to take care of that one.
If you don't take the responsibility of this thing, it's not going to get better.
It's only going to get worse anyway.
You need to take responsibility of that one, and you have to take action of that one to make sure that
it's your responsibility to keep them good and healthy and nice and happy.
And and as long as you are not taking this action, it will not be buying good by itself.
Or if you are just doing it for letting the other people to do it, that person may be tried for a while
and then they will give up.
That means you are not just not taking enough responsibility.
So this is why it's really crucial that you need to take responsibility of every relationships you have
at work and at your home, at your family.
Number seven, you have to have a vision of your second half of your life, like particularly when you
are at 40 or 35 already or whatever you want it to be, let's say, but you already become 35.
You achieve your goal.
Let's say, for example, you wanted to be a CIO or you want to be a CEO, want to be a C-suite executive
as a professional, or you want to build a product, you need to think about what will be the second
half of your life.
So there's a lot of second half of your life.
Could be you could be a consultant.
It could be a speaker.
It could be a trainer, or it could be establish a nonprofit organization.
So that was my second part of my life is about speaking and training other peoples and nonprofit organizations.
So you have to define design your second half of your life, and that will really motivate you the first
half of life and keep you inspired and get you more connected and and and take you forward to your success
by energizing yourself with happiness.
Here we go.
I told you how to do a self-managing great professionals and entrepreneurs.
So these are my seven tips.
Go ahead and execute in your life and you can able to manage yourself to be more successful, more happy,
and more productive to to together.
Go ahead and execute in your life and become more successful.
And we're going to give you the biggest thumbs up, all the best.


=== Delegation Mastery: Get More Done with Less Stress as A Modern Leader ===


--- What will you achieve from this module? ---

In this module, we'll be typically focused on one fundamental thing.
So what is called this module is called leading yourself.
So to lead ourselves we need to have a clear strategy.
So in my own personal life I was leading myself at all stages.
And even today because everything started with my how I lead myself.
So you will have a seven key strategies which are going to help you, to propel you forward, to effectively
manage yourself.
So now when I was the call effective that drive to one thing is called for productivity.
So that means I'm going to give you also lay down a clear formula about how to proactively manage your
productivity.
And to do this one you need to focus on three factors.
It's about your energy level, your time, and your mental health.
Because those are the three combo.
If you could spin it in the right way, then we can be highly effective to leading ourselves.
And there is one fundamental factor that is called external factor, because every time we take an input
from outside, we really need to know how to process that input and to process any input.
We can use one fundamental aspect strategy which can help us always.
Winner and I have seen to a lot of successful, highly ultra successful professionals and entrepreneurs.
They use one trick and that trick is about note taking trick.
And I'm going to give you away a key strategies and approaches and also a free tool.
So which can almost 100 x make you more productive in terms of note taking ability too.
So that's the whole package, which I'm going to put you onto into this module for you.
So you can take advantage, all of it and you can level up yourself as a leader.
So what are you waiting for?
Let's start the first sessions right after now.


=== Excelling Myself  as a Leader ===


--- Exclusive Community Access and Leverage this Advantage ---

What I'm learning any new skill.
The motivation is a great fuel for me, and when I'm using this motivation as a fuel, I can really
move forward.
So now the point is about how I can get those motivations, because I'm learning a lot of skill to make
an impact to community, to the world, to the companies I'm working on and so on.
So now when I'm getting all this motivation is one of the big sources about when I am part of a critical
community where I'm not just there like no one, and I can actually answer the questions, ask the questions,
interact with each other, and I can feel the network too.
So this is one of the big problems when it comes to online learning, where people feel isolated, looking
and staring at the screen all day by themselves and trying to learn.
And I found that this is one of the one of the hardest way to learn.
So that's why I have this exclusive options for you in this course, where you actually use this one
to learn in a much more practical way to get there.
Right.
So the community, the design, you have an access for it.
This is actually a paid community, which is almost $200, $250 per month membership fee per month.
But in this course you have an access of it as for six months where you can make the best out of it
and you don't have to pay anything during this six month period of time.
So it is an ultimate advantage you have compared to anyone else who are not taking this course.
So now I'm going to tell you how you can make the best out of this ultimate advantage for you to try
forward and build some valuable skill for you, which you want to do, and which is required for you
to move forward and become more successful on your mission.
A lot of theory are very exciting, but application is the problem.
But here's the point application is the key because without execution nothing happens.
So for doing anything execution, what I realized in my own life is about I need to prove more perspective
around it.
And this is where it comes to the play of your community, where every time you are making a progress
or every time you face any particular challenge, come over to the community and make a post.
Don't be silent and just be an observer, because when you are just silent observer, you are just only
doing one thing.
It's about you are losing this opportunity of using this advantage on your favor.
And here's the thing.
Don't be a person just asking around.
The person also answering other people's perspective as well to all other problem challenges as well
to other problem issue they are facing as well to why.
Right?
Because when you do that, there are two valuable thing you get.
First of all, you see their problem.
And through that aspect you understand other problem which you have not imagined yet.
So you putting input into their problem, you actually take the advantage of learning how the problem
can be solved.
And you have also understand that one type of new case in your mindset, which is actually giving you
an advantage of your skill set development into.
Because if you just think about what is the skill?
The skill is about solving a particular use cases or case issues.
So when you are answering all the people problems in case, so you actually accumulating more cases
and more perspective to your mind.
And through that one you are expanding your skill set to in the community.
I will be also definitely answering different other questions and challenges as well to as a trainer.
I will be also sharing with you different advantages and tools and different contents to perspective
with YouTube.
So which will be also an additional advantage to use them regularly, listen to it, interact with it,
comment it.
Feel free to ask questions if something is not clear what I'm sharing the community and get a deeper
execution with you.
And that's when you actually become having things moving forward.
So one thing is very important you need to always having a growth mindset.
I'm in a constant quest of one thing.
Is that what I want to be in a growth mindset?
Because every day I want to grow myself and to grow myself, I need to have a growth mindset.
And this community is going to be a great test bed for you to actually building and practicing and growing
yourself and your skill set and become highly successful moving forward on your missions, which you
are pursuing right now.
You don't have to worry about how to make a post, just check the resource section.
There is a content template there, how to make it post effectively and always adding an image.
Making any kind of post is more useful and more trustworthy and more connected to other people.
To check the resource section, there is also another template where you can actually very easily you
can turn out your grid image, which is related to your problem right now.
And here's the best part.
You don't need to have any design skill to design your image, which is related to your problem.
I clearly show it that one to you and you can make the best use of it very easily.
So just check the resource section, get your post templates and get your image template.
Put it all together and make the pause right now.
Moving forward, after every module you are completing, or even after every lecture you are completing
as well.
Because the more you do, the more you post and share and the more better you become.
So this research is going to enlighten you.
So I'm going to share with you.
So when you learn something from a content and then you make a top three takeaway about the content,
you will have almost 35% more chance to turn that into a skill set.
So use that on every time you are going through a particular lesson.
Turn that as a top three takeaway for you from each of the lecture for you.
And then here's the second part of the insight, which will even delight you.
And this is what it is.
So when you share your top three takeaway to a particular community and also interact with other community
members, your chance of turn that towards your very valuable skill set is almost 94% compared to who
did not do it.
So that why this community is an ultimate advantage for you, where you can boost your skill set to
moving forward and become highly successful on this journey too.
And here's the best part you are not here to impress anyone.
You are here to share.
Get learning, giving input for other people's problems that you can learn from them too, and use this
community as a desperate for you to try for it as well too.
So let's be respectful.
Let's ask question.
Let's answer people's questions.
Let's interrupt each other.
Let's expand our network and become highly successful.
So what are you waiting for?
This is why I included this community into this program.
So you can make the best use of it.
So check out the resource section and I will see you in the next lecture.


=== Extra Resources ===


--- "Thriving in Hybrid: Strategies for Managing Productivity from Anywhere ---

Congratulations.
You are a manager or a director or a C-suite executives or.
And you have team members under you.
And now your company has changed the policy to send employees to work from home policy like Google,
Intel, all the big companies has done so.
Probably your company has done it, or there may be some kind of pandemic issues.
Your your staffs are working from home and not working in the same office in front of you.
So now you are thinking about how you can motivate your staff, or you are already working for a while
and now you're thinking to how you can even motivate them more.
Congratulation!
You find the right video because in this video I'm going to give you a total ten tips.
The ten tips I'm going to give you one by one, which you can really use it to your work every day to
motivate your employees to work with you and to produce outstanding results.
You want that, right?
So what are you waiting for?
Let's get started.
Number one, foster a sense of belonging.
So right now, whenever you are in the office, they are sitting in front of you.
You are looking at them.
They are looking at you.
You feel like you are the team.
You are working together.
And then there have been always used to it.
Our human beings were so used to it, and that's what we expect from best, what we used to.
Right.
So like an example, when you're sitting them all the time, they are all seeing you all the time.
They're coming to work at 8:00, leave it at 6:06 p.m..
And now it's not happening.
Now they're just staying at home and getting their own machine.
So one of the few things about doing this one is number one is about you need to tell them that even
you are not in the office, but you are still going to the team.
So one of the things is you have to communicate in different way by email or or text message or video
calls.
You have to promote that.
We are still one team, you are still belonging to the team, and you are not in a sense that to get
out of the company, we're not thinking about letting you go.
We are team.
We're going to work together, we're going to produce outstanding results.
So please stay together and work together.
So that's one of the things you need to do is about foster a sense of belonging of one team.
And it is not about just one day.
You need to reinforce it almost every day and every activities, and every time doing or doing an activity
will be like an example, one of the greatest.
We should be doing one weekly team meeting where everybody is involved.
Everyone is there.
If your team have 100 people, that's a different story.
Then you can have multiple layers.
But if you have a team like less than 15 or 20, you can definitely get a video conference with all
of them and have those open discussions, talks.
And that could be really helpful to make them feel like they belong to the team.
Number two, improve the overall communication.
So when you are in the office, you are you are a busy person.
You are doing a lot of problem solving.
You have been going out to many meetings.
You're meeting a lot of clients, a lot of partners solving critical issues.
But now you are not there and they are not there to.
Now you need to spend more time to communicate with your staff, and there is no other alternative to
it actually, when you are in the office and you have been so busy, but your presence was somehow got
lucky and they felt your presence and they feel motivated and they keep working.
But now you are not there.
But now you need to communicate more.
You need to communicate more very clearly what you want from them, what you also need to tell them
what you are expecting from them.
And you need to be there, more close to them by even using the space.
You could.
If your office space has a space like a workspace, use it to as a video call very often, and that
can make you feel like you are more connected and you can use the text messages.
You create a chat and text message group and text them out.
Use some announcements and opportunities so that them that you got to think about those different approaches
to create the communication better.
If you don't create the communication better, they will not be staying motivated.
They are going to feel like they are falling apart.
Number three, encourage a growth mindset.
Like an example, when somebody has a fixed mindset, they don't want to change.
They don't want to even change from one phone to another phone.
Even they feel like they just wanted to stick to the old what they are doing.
But now you got to foster them in a growth mindset.
So one of the good way of doing this one, you could do a small workshop about how they can use the
growth mindset.
Adapting to change.
If you can run your workshops about this one, definitely they can be valuable for build a champion
inspiration team.
So like an example your team always has like a top performer and mid performer and low performer.
So however, when the sum you send your team to outside, you need to pick up a champion inspirational
team who are like the best, who are in great and digital space that don't know how the best way to
communicate.
They know how to best use of the tool.
Bring them on to work with you as like your extension of you to to get them connected with different
other people so they feel like they're all connected and not feel like disconnected.
And as you are busy.
So having a creating a champion team could really help you out to get them motivated and give them communication,
different pieces and bytes so they feel like they have the same feel of belonging and they feel like
they have been properly communicated.
They're not feeling like they are disconnected from the team.
So this championship idea could be really valuable for you.
Number five build a visual storyboard you.
One of the great way to do this one is if you build a visual storyboard, people can see what is happening.
Where is the task going?
What is the task assigned to them?
If you could create a scoreboard or visual storyboard, you can consider about like a Kanban.
One of the great way of doing Kanban is you can use Trello.
Trello has a Kanban and it has unlimited and user can access this one.
Even the freemium version two you have limited of boards, but you don't need a probably a lot more
than ten boards.
You can have five boards.
If you have a big team and you can, you can break them together and you can just just just drag them
forward onto that board and then it will be just fine.
So here's the point is about do scoreboarding and that will make them feel like what they're doing,
creating values and how it's impacting other people and having a Kanban board.
That's why it's so valuable.
So like I told you, one of the tool you can use Trello.com, you can Google it out and you can find
it.
It's freemium, do not pay for premium version is just good enough.
You don't need to even pay as well.
So I love using Trello.
Number six provide flexibility and focus of achievement.
So this is the way before you have been looking into the staff, you could have a discussion.
You probably had the art of micromanaging.
You want to see them and you want to give them feedback.
You can do this as well.
You can give them feedback.
You can you can send them a video message if you want to.
You can have a video call and you can give the feedback.
But however, you need to now think that they are not in front of you.
They probably will work at home in a sofa.
Maybe they will work in the bed, or maybe they will work into the into the work desk.
So you need to give them that flexibility of time, probably giving a little more time.
It doesn't have to be fixed by finishing by 5:00 pm.
They can finish by 9:00 pm.
That's fine if they can finish.
So that's why you focus about achievement, what they really achieve on that period of time, and you
set up the goals and give them a deadline and look at their achievement.
And you can have some checkpoints.
And if you have a very, very adventurous goal and you see that they probably lost the track, do some
checkpoints and give them feedback and support to help them achieve this goal.
Don't be just a manager, because that's something I always say that don't be just like your manager,
but giving them a real good feedback as a leader and help them out.
Give them handrails so they can actually go there, and that will be really valuable for your team to
achieve great things.
Number seven recognize the employee effort.
This is very, very important.
So when they are in front of you you see how hard they're working, how focused they are, how much
effort they're putting.
But now they're not in front of you.
So it's very easy that you forgot that or what amount of effort they're actually putting to get things
done.
So that's why I want you to also reinforce you this one.
Focus on the achievement every every week.
What they have achieved.
You tell them what they have achieved.
You give them the feedback, give them the positive feedback and tell them how they have done.
And you tell them how, how much they really put effort to produce this one too.
And you agree with that one, and you say you're giving it a right good compliment or thumbs up.
So they actually felt like that they're feeling and getting getting feedback from you.
And this is the hard one.
There's a lot of managers even in physical life.
They struggle with that one too.
But this is the way you should be doing this one.
Eight.
Offer continuous feedback.
So this is something that is really important too.
So you set up a goal for one week of time.
And you are not just coming back on Friday.
And it was like lost for a whole week.
That doesn't really work when you're giving a feedback for giving a goal for, let's say, for five
days, Monday to Friday, you should be having multiple checkpoints in the middle and and give them
feedback.
You should have daily meetings if you can.
If you cannot do it every two days, and you could have a specific, separate discussion about project
based and you give them feedback.
And also before giving the feedback is very important.
One, make sure that what is the expectation clear to them, and then you give them the feedback when
they present back to you.
You can focus on positive feedback.
If you say it's not good enough, you can also give them negative feedback too.
But when you're giving a negative feedback, always tell them what they should do to improve itself.
It's very important.
Number nine leverage the the power of technology.
Always remember digital era is everywhere.
Digital technology.
Digital technology doesn't mean that the use of Facebook call and keep texting with your friends, spending
time and video doing nothing.
This technology is not that.
Recently I was reading, one of the trainer was talking about remembering your all week calendar in
your brain, and I wanted to read this one.
I just immediately come to mind.
That's a horrible advice.
So so technology, you are not going to fight with you.
You don't need to fight with technology.
You need to.
You're going to use technology in your favor as your extension.
It could be a great tool for you and get a great productivity support for you to extend on in this one
too.
And there's many things it can do.
Like an example.
Now you can call any any team members anytime you want.
You can have video call with them, use texting messages.
You can use different kind of platform rather than just a traditional chatting system like an example.
In Facebook you have so many text messages coming from friends, uh, um, accountants, you even don't
know texting you as well too.
So in a work time you can getting out of the Facebook, but you can use different kind of platform,
like if your company has a work workspace, use the work chat for your communication.
If you see that they even don't have a work chat, you can launch out some kind of platform like a slack
and freemium version works fine.
Unlimited users probably.
There's a limitation of storage problem, but why do you need to see so many old storage?
Probably as.
And that's the thing, you probably can give it away and focus about how much chatting and communications
can be built.
Or if you are in this one, you can pick up a particle or application which is not really popular in
your country, and you communicate everyone to use that chat, messenger, chat.
And then you can communicate because as it has not been popular, most of the people are not using.
So all the text message will come to the platform are related to work, not about chats.
So it will not be a big distraction, right?
Number ten.
It's very important.
Trust your team.
You need to trust your team.
I know that you are a manager.
You are a director.
You've been seeing them in front of them and seeing that how far you want to connect them.
You want to fill them, you want to connect to your or give them the energy.
You want to give them the push.
You are very used to that one, but now they're not in front of you.
So one of the things you need to work on in yourself too.
Now you need to work on yourself to trust more of your team as well, because whatever you were doing
before was good.
But now you can use this way to build the trust with your team and begin working on yourself.
That and controlling your own micromanaging urge and putting more trust into your team and doing the
other nine thing can create you even better.
Manager.
And here you go.
You got my ten tips to learn how to motivate your team if you.
So just just go ahead.
Use these tips to motivate your team and produce outstanding results to make your team successful.
I know you will be all the best.

--- 3 Principle of Digital Leadership in this Era of Hyper Transformation ---

We want to be a leader 4.0 to adopting the leadership 4.0 methodologies.
So to become a leader 4.0, I want to share with you three fundamental principles right now.
And it's not going to be just a principle.
I also want you to do a roleplay activity with me as well.
So now let's dive into these three principles and I'm going to rate yourself.
And we're going to we're going to work together with this one to get you moving forward on that one.
So at this point you can pause this session right now and download the resource section right now on
the resource section, and start reading and discussing with me on this.
The first principle, replacing the traditional decision making to use AI powered decision making.
So let me just break it down for a traditional leader who typically make decisions based on their years
of experience.
The other side, the new leadership is about using the AI to get thousands or millions of data points
and get a lot of operational decisions, and finally, to choose the best decision for themselves.
And this is what JP Morgan is doing really well.
They have reviewing all their contracts by eye, which is getting it done for seconds, which used to
take them 360,000 hours to get it done per year.
And that's why you could do this.
Use AI powered tools like ChatGPT, Tableau or Watson to get a lot of AI powered decisions to support
your decisions.
And this is why you should not do.
Let's stop making just intuition based decisions, because a leader who only makes the decisions based
on the intuitions, they often make major mistakes.
So now it's time for you to do this exercise.
Now I want you to pause the video, go to the template and ready yourself, fill it up and then get
back to me about this principle.
The second principle is about the data is the most valuable asset for the new leaders.
So now what is the old leader used to do?
Old leader used to make decisions based on their opinion, experience and gut feeling.
The new leadership is about using data driven approach to make every possible decision moving forward.
And here is a great success story.
Netflix saved 1 billion USD in one year by using AI to to predict what people want to use, compared
to using all the traditional and gut feeling and intuitions.
So what to do?
Use real time data to track in projects you are working on.
If you're an HR department.
Track the employee performance.
Track the employee turnover rates by using real time data.
If you're in finance, look at the financial numbers and metrics in real time.
If you're marketing, look at the words the market wants.
Where's the market is speaking about your product.
Track them in real time.
And here's what not to do.
Don't just rely on heavily on your experience and all your successful paths, because that one will
get you bogged down because the other one, your other leader, and the competitor will be using AI
and use it very brutally to win over you.
Very big.
The third bespoke digital scheme is the new leadership skills for leaders used to think about all digital
tools and technologies are on the job of IT department and the new leader thinks is completely different
way.
New leader understand automation, digital tools that are competent and digital literacy and use them
for everything they do.
So what to do?
Invest heavily on learning AI, tool automation and digital literacy and what not to do on this is this.
Avoid learning digital skills because the leaders who does not disrupt themselves is the only thing
happen to them.
They get replaced.
So now it's time for you to read on this moving forward.
So I want to pause the video and go back to the template and read yourself on this one, and then get
back to me.
All right.
You got the three ratings in your template right now.
So now it's time for you to reflect and plan moving forward.
Actions.
So you can see in the template there is a column to fill it up for you to take actionable items.
I want you to make the actionable items, and I want you to share this template to me, or in the community,
or even your own LinkedIn profile.
And you will see a lot of people give you valuable insights to moving forward.
Because integration, getting feedback, getting support is a great way to transform moving forward.
Because transformation is not easy.
But all those things you can get from the community, from the from the linear platform, or for me
as a trainer, going to be your fuel to drive forward to achieve a great success in your career because
you are adopting the leadership 4.0 methodology right now.

--- A Proven 6-Step Framework for Effective Delegation—Every Time ---

Happy.
Ever delete a task and feel like I should have just get it done myself?
It would be much faster if I just do it myself.
I don't tell you you're not alone.
According to Forbes, the research among all the managers found out that 150% delegations failed between
or just simply wrong alignment on the expectation.
This is not happening just because of the people you have, but also the process you have.
And during this coaching session, I'm going to give you a six step process framework, which can eliminate
all kind of confusion through your delegation process.
You want to learn, right?
Of course you do.
Let's get started right now.
One of my mentee, Alyssa, she is the head of sales.
And she came on to me with a unique problem.
Alyssa was being really upset with her assistant and the direct report because according to her, she
was thinking all of the team members are not capable.
So after engaging the coaching with Alyssa, one of the things I find out this one is an unique story,
which I want to share with you.
So Alyssa was looking for an event to organize in the next four weeks period of time two weeks later.
What happened?
None of the team member actually took the right event proposal done.
None of the team member actually even invited the right invitee list, and the event venue still has
not been confirmed.
And that's what Alyssa figured out.
This one.
The whole team is not doing the right thing as what they should do.
So of course Alyssa was very frustrated.
But then after reviewing, how did she briefed her team?
It was just simply one line.
She has been done and that one line was the issue.
So after we fixed that one line with expectation alignment, the following event completely had a much
better outcome, which is a much more well aligned and meet what Alyssa was looking for our team.
So what is the thing?
Make a change.
I'm gonna coach you right during this coaching session.
So you can also apply and get anything more done through delegation with your team.
Interval delegation.
The framework I'm going to coach you right now is called card model.
Great delegation.
Start with clarity.
It's not about only just telling you what to do, but also clearly say that what is the success look
like?
And that's exactly why this card model come to the play.
Because it's simple, it's repeatable and put your team always to the path of successful completion
of mission.
Card stands for specific meaning of each of the words.
The first one is S stands for scope.
What exactly needs to be done?
So you got to be specific.
Create a pitch deck with ten slides for client X.
That's a good example.
The second one is about context.
Why is this task important?
Let me give you an example.
Give the bigger picture.
The pitch could lead us $100,000 contract.
The client values innovation and speed.
The third word is Stanford constraints.
What limit do they need to know?
Here is an example.
Time.
Budget format.
Brand guidelines.
Stick to the current branding deck.
Budget is under $500.
The next one is about a stands for authority.
What decisions can they make?
Here's a few questions.
Can you talk to the clients?
Make changes.
Approve budgets.
The next one is R stands for resources.
What support or tool are available?
Example past decks.
Complex access to CRM team members for help.
The final one is a it?
Deadlines?
What's the due date?
Plus checking points?
Here's an example.
First job by Friday.
Final review by Monday.
And if you apply this framework, it turns your every briefing will turn into a powerful guideline for
your team member through delegation so they know exactly when and what to get done with the right quality
you are looking for as their manager or leader.
And this also ensures this one that you're not micromanaging and also under managing as well to your
team.
Now I want to pause and reflect this question moving forward.
Right now, think back to the last task you delegated.
Which part of Scott did you skip?
How did that affect the outcome?
I want to pause this video right now and run it down in a notebook or in your desktop file, whichever.
Open up and then get back to me in a few minutes.
Let's pause it right now.
Well done.
So you got the first reflection point already from this coaching session.
Now I'm going to give you some protip, which is going to help you to apply the scorecard framework
more effectively to get the highest possible outcome out of it.
Ready?
Of course you do.
The first one.
Use voice notes or voice brief.
Talking through scorecard can often be faster and clearer than typing.
Use loom, WhatsApp or slack voice notes or even Microsoft Team works as well.
Number two build scarred into your SOPs.
If you often delegate similar tasks like proposal or onboarding, create scar templates your team can
reuse.
Number three check for understanding.
After briefing, ask the person to summarize the task back to you in their own words.
This catches confusion before the deadline hits.
And the final one.
The fourth one is the AI tips.
Use ChatGPT or AI to generate draw brief based on scat prompt.
It's a great way to delegate faster without losing clarity.
Check out the resource section.
There is a prompt already ready there.
You can just copy paste that one and create the delegation notes ready for you before you even deliver
it to your team.
And you can save it in your computer so you can use it anytime you need going forward as well.
Now I want you to start on the next reflection point.
Look at your task list today.
Which task will you delegate using the scarred model this week?
What result do you want?
And who is the right person for this job?
Now write it down in a notepad or any word on your diaries and get back to me in a few minutes.
So pause the video, let's write it down and get back to me.
Well done.
Now you have wrote it down already, so now it's time for you to turn this node of reflection point
two into a small micro pulse in LinkedIn.
So I want you to copy that answer, put it in LinkedIn or in your Facebook profile and tag me there.
You can include it in the post.
You can write it down your course name there too, as well as one of the tag and write me my name,
John Masood Pervez, or tag me there and post that too.
And I want you to do that, because then myself and my team will come over and interact with you, and
we'll provide you even more resources and inspiration to.
So now I want to pause the video, make the post, and get back to me right now.
Well done.
You have just made the post and just hold back.
Very soon myself and my team will come over and look at your post.
I want to tell you one thing very honestly.
Delegation often does not fail because your teams are not capable.
The delegation often fail because often the leader are not enough clear to the team member.
And here's the thing.
Now you have the framework and the tool and the coaching.
So now you can nail it.
And every delegation section without any clarity or misalignment of the expectation.
You got it right.
See you in the next coaching session.

--- Beyond the Resume: Spotting Candidates to Steer Clear Of ---

In this video.
I'm totally I'm going to give you total six types of people you should never hire when you find them
in an interview, because I'm sure that you're going to keep seeing them around because they're always
around there and there's a lot of them.
I was not really sure that I should hire not in during my journey, but after I come to this present
situation, I have come to a point that this is the sixth candidate I will never hire unless in the
future.
I have to unlearn it and learn in a new aspect.
So maybe I add more and this time I will happy to make a new video on that aspect.
But right now, with the present exposure of thousands of interviews, I have come to a conclusion that
these are the six candidates you should never hire.
And if you are a hiring person, I will suggest you to strongly consider these six candidate not to
hire.
So what are you waiting for?
Number one outdated LinkedIn profile.
Like me, I actually hardly look at the CV of a particular candidate.
It's about, um, most of the time when I'm interviewing for Vista Group, I always look at the LinkedIn
profile.
I hardly tell them to send their bring the CV.
I never asked them to print out any printed CV.
Actually, it's a waste of paper and.
And then just just spending ten minutes, we're throwing out the paper and just doesn't make any sense
where we already have a LinkedIn profile and how updated they are.
I mean, it doesn't mean that you had somebody have to tweet it every, every post, something in every
minute.
But how updated the profile is, the all the experience are already been there is all the profile is
there because somebody is not putting the right profile picture in a LinkedIn profile, which is already
professional.
Network means somebody has something to hide about themselves.
Why?
Where's the insecurity coming from?
The same when the job experience they have.
And those are not all the job experience they have included here as well too.
Why?
Is there something wrong?
It's it's it's a smoke sign.
And then all the education backgrounds they have done, why they have not added all of them in the LinkedIn
profile compared to the CV.
So that's a great understanding for me to figure out that.
Why?
So I normally would like to put a red flag when I see somebody has an out of date LinkedIn profile doesn't
have and probably sometime never post as well.
So that could be another level of flag for me to see that.
Oh, it was yellow, but now it's turned into more close to orange to red.
Something like this.
So our LinkedIn profile, always a red flag for me to hiring someone in my team or even in group number
two unaware about the company.
So every time I do is make sure that everybody when I'm interviewing someone or investor group, I train
all the managers, make sure that they send out the details of the company, our company or the company.
They're coming to work.
And and always there's a question about what do you know about our company or, or why do you want to
join our team?
So this is one of the two key aspects that I always love to ask in, in kind of interviews.
And if somebody does, giving a good answer, I mean, I have quite vague answer because they have not
studied anything about the company.
They just come over.
So that clearly shows that those candidates actually don't know what game they are in and what they
really want to do in their career, and even they are so much drifted in your career in life, so they
don't even probably gonna add a great value of my team because there is a goal that is the mission of
my team and everybody need to work together.
Everybody need to work together, everybody need to help each other.
Everybody look at their big targets and drive that forward because because as a team, what we are doing
is as a group or in my career as a CEO or director of transformation, these are transformation.
What do we do?
We make things happen.
We don't wait for things to happen to us.
So the people who even don't know what is the company that they're coming to interview.
So that means they are a very reactive people.
They're waiting for things to happen on them.
And that's not a good people who can work with me or in my culture, because all the need we need,
the people who are willing to work together, we're going to make things happen.
We're not going to wait things to happen to us.
We're going to make things happen.
And so that's another red flag for me, is about I will never have the people who actually know anything
about the company.
And when we're asking them to join our team, to give us a very vague answer, because they have not
spent any time to read, or even they was too lazy about it.
So that could be even another flag as well.
Number three inappropriate content in the social media.
If somebody has a terrible personal branding and they don't understand what what kind of content they
like to put on social media, um, in terms of crazy dancing in the bar or partying somewhere or exposing
themselves in a different way, bringing such kind of people will be always going against the brand
of the company because as an employer, branding always a big aspect.
And, and every people hold that employer branding out there when they're coming to join my team.
So if somebody I see that have a terrible personal brand of sense about what kind of content they want
to put on, probably I will say that this is not the way I want to have them in my company, because
I worked on reputed industries.
I work on workforce transformation and work for digital transformation.
I worked on it as a CIO, so I need people who are well organized and know what kind of information
they should share, what kind of information they shouldn't share.
I'm not telling them to filter out there.
I always tell them, be disciplined.
If you are in a career or an entrepreneur, you've got to be disciplined.
But you want to have some fun sometimes, which is fine.
Go and have fun.
It doesn't mean that you have to be so crazy and which you are proud of it.
That a crazy time you have and your social media is all about that.
That is not a great impression.
So this is the candidate I would like to avoid as well to.
I'm not talking about that.
Look, if you are done some heavy, crazy fun thing, keep it between you and your closed one.
Not exposing to the whole of the world saying that how crazy you are.
That doesn't make any sense.
And and so this is the the candidate I will not hire who has a poor personal brand with terrible, unprofessional
content in the social media.
Number four, the zero zero energy level.
The people who work walk in front of the interview.
Right.
They're just coming from there and walk in, and then you can feel the energy that this person, the
way they shake, the way they smile, the way they talk, the voice, it's matter a lot.
I mean, the person who maybe has a lot of experience but don't have a good energy and there must be
a reason for that.
Number one, maybe they are not motivated to improve themselves.
Number two, maybe they are not excited to join this role.
So why should I hire that person if they're not willing to do the thing?
Because they will have a lot of exciting challenges and they need to be excited enough to handle those
challenges.
Number three is about somebody had a poor or undisciplined lifestyle, so their energy management is
really bad.
Um, so I don't need people who are already dead zombies.
I don't need zombies because we're talking about going and attack the problem, and we want to make
the change happen too.
So having somebody great energy is matter a lot.
I want to tell you on this one, so recently, um, I was recruiting one business development manager.
He has plenty of experience in sales.
He's quite, quite old on that one.
He is not a complete match on that.
He never worked on that particular industry.
He was always working in other industries.
And.
But still, though, one of the key things influenced me to have him selected for the role is about
his energy level.
Yes, he did other kind of related job, which was also his experience.
And he and he talked the way he he wants to show the can do attitude.
But one of the things I really attracted is about the energy level, the way he calm, the way he the
confidence you come in, the way you pitch, the solution, the way he's talking about the problem that
he prepared, the presentation.
Presentation is not the best.
His presentation has a lot of holes.
Um, which is fine.
But if you don't have the energy to improve yourself, how can you improve and get it done?
So that is the way I was really liked about him is about he was showing that energy and finally he got
the job and I was like, even he's probably not the best candidate on that.
On that aspect.
But his energy level just so.
Plus everyone.
So I will never hire somebody who has a little foreign.
So if you're hiring, get the people who have great energy.
At the same time, if you are looking for jobs and if you see that your energy level is poor, find
a way.
Why you have energy level for lower, maybe your environment, maybe your foods, maybe your your energy
management, and also your attitudes about life.
If you could adjust this for you can actually fix the energy level about your lecture.
Number five the complainers I will never hire.
So this complainer are all about you.
Bring them forward.
You ask them probably what do you want to change the job?
And they start complaining about everything about their companies, their cultures, their managers,
their employers, their hiring processes, their hiring processes, everything they start to bring in
as a complainer.
So basically, if I hire them in the team, so they will be actually the focus about bringing complaint.
I need people who actually can solve the complaint.
That's basically it like an example.
So when somebody made a complaint, I always ask them, what did you really do to improve anything of
your company?
So if somebody's coming on my table and talking a lot of complaining about their previous employer,
which is fine, I'm not scared about that one.
But what things I really care about, about being a manager.
You as a manager, you're an executive there.
What do you really do to improve this pain point as an employee?
You see, how many times do you raise their voice?
How many times did you take an action?
How did you treat your people as a manager?
I love asking these people and, and, and most of the time I see the poor answers unprepared, and
most of the time it's just a blank space, which means they're just producing an answer in their brain,
not evidence based, but to for debating ways to show that they are really good, but they're not.
I mean, if they are really passionate about it, what they have done, it should be on top of their
mind.
They should be speaking immediately.
So I always avoid complainers.
So if you are complainers, change yourself.
Because if you always love complaining, you have so less time to actually fixing things and your expertise
and your life, happiness and process depends how much you take action to solve problems, rather than
just keep complaining about it.
At the same time, if you're hiring people, focus about who actually completing a lot.
Avoid them and you'll see that one.
You will have a lot more positive people, and then you have a mindset to work on your problems rather
than work on your complaints.
And you become one of the complainers.
So don't surround yourself with complainers.
Then end of the day, you'll become one of them because that's the law of attraction, right?
Number six, the latecomers.
Well, this is something I was quite confused before and I was not really thinking about.
People can be late two, three minutes.
Uh, yeah, I think I still think that one two minutes late is fine.
But if somebody is late already more than 10 minutes or 15 minutes, 20 minutes, how can you depend
on such kind of people in an executive level?
You need people to be on time because the interview rounds is about one, two, three, four, five
rounds.
I know it's kind of exhausting.
Everybody goes through that process.
But being on time is such an important aspect that so it shows that how you can manage your time.
uh, well, you probably have been called for an interview to go to another, uh, CEOs or or board
of directors houses.
And you don't know anything about that, that, that houses and that.
That's just a real reason.
That's fine.
Anybody understand?
Like, if somebody I invested invited somebody to my home area to interview for the final round to discuss
particular aspects, and they don't know the area and they're coming from far, which is fine.
But if it's an office environment, I invite someone for an interview and they come in ten, 15 minutes
late and that shows that they're unprepared.
So that means even the job interview, they want to get into a team and they're so unprepared.
So when I hire them, they will be unprepared.
Almost all the meetings we'll be doing, all the projects they'll be running through.
And I need people to be well prepared and and show that they can really do the things.
And that's why I don't, um, hire these people.
But however, this is probably the last one.
That's why it's my number six in my right.
Right.
So, um, I really shows want to show a lot of empathic people.
Like if you are a late comer on meetings, think about improving your time management skills.
Use different kind of mobile apps.
Use different calendar and and turn on your notifications to try to find a way to notify yourself that
hey, what is the appointment?
What is the meeting you got on the day so you don't keep getting late on your meeting?
Because becoming late is a poor personal branding for you as well too.
And it always brings you to a situation where you're underprepared and you hustle, hustle, hustle,
but you the amount of hustling and extra stress you are taking, it's not really good for you to do
all the things you need to do.
So if you're having late comers is a red flag.
And if you are an interview and if you are love being late, use the apps, use the calendar, manage
your time.
Stick around you.
If you have a great environment for job interview, stick around and talk to your partners lovers to
help them, to make them help you to manage your time management.
And that will be really great for you because I do a lot of things and every day I try to be more productive.
So I continue to pay strong attention to what is really important for me on that day, and that need
to be top notch, that need to be on time.
Otherwise it will be creating issues for other peoples.
And for my result, I'm trying to create on the top important thing of the day.
So here we go.
In this video I give you total six tips and this is the six candidates you should never hire if you're
hiring and if you are interviewing and if you have any one of them or multiple of them, please work
on them, solve them and put them out of you.
And if you see the job, getting a job will be much easier because you are.
These are the things that are making you so unemployable.
And you.
That's why probably you're not moving forward in your career, not getting the next job you're looking
for.
So let's get it fixed.

--- Beyond the Resume: Strategies for Identifying Top Talent ---

You are an entrepreneur, so continuously building the team or you are professionals and you are looking
always to do great things done for your company and take things forward in your professional career.
You probably already know that your main mission when you're building a team or hiring people, is about
building the team with the right player.
So that's why we often talk about is like Facebook, they always become successful or any good to great
companies.
They always become so successful is because of they bring a players like you.
If you can bring a great player on your team that can hold, the things of the team can be much more
effective because their great performance will motivate the other people to motivate themselves.
And that's a completely great shift in your in your, in your team as well too.
So how do we really select those players?
So in my career, in my obvious groups and in my career in different roles in different companies,
I almost, uh, thousands of people I interviewed on the journey.
So there are four key characteristics I really, um, can pay attention to, to pick the right air player
for my team.
So in this video, I'm going to share those four key characteristics with you so that you can use to
identify an air player so you can bring the player with you.
Or if you are an interviewee and looking for a job, if you could build this thing for inside of you,
you will be able to become an air player as well too.
You want that, right?
So what are you waiting for?
Let's get started.
Number one is about self-management and committed.
So?
So one of the good things about seeing that when you are talking to any particular person, that how
often they are self-managing themselves and how well they are self-motivated, self-organized.
So when you are running this different interview.
Right, so you have a set of questions which you are asking for subject matters to understand there
are skill sets or to get the job done, but also other players.
But you got to always remember that the skill set you are excellent about it will make you will not
never make you an airplane unless, let's say you are a NASA designer of or your motherboard designer,
or you are a very rare thing with like two, four, five, ten, 15 people in all over the world particular
skill set.
But that kind of people most likely were not.
If you are looking for a job or you are hiring people, probably you don't need such kind of people
because you most like 99.99% of the hiring manager will not able to hire that kind of thing.
So such kind of people.
So you're looking for people who are a-player means they have to have the subject matter expertise and
they need additional.
One thing is, number one, the how self-managed they are, how self-motivated they are, because the
people who can motivate themselves, they can be going amazing miles about doing great things.
And at the same time, the people who are self-managed, they know what exactly they need to manage
themselves, and they become a role model in the team to inspire everyone to be a self-managing team
too.
So one of the simple question can help you to figure it out.
Give me an example where you really self-manage yourself.
Um, tell us a situation where you failed and how did you motivate to move on on that one?
Do simple question and how well the answer, how deep the answer, how well example they pulled it to
you.
Don't really brag much about push that much on that one because you want just want to hear and that
will set the tone.
Higher level of things.
So that was the number one.
Number two responsibility.
How responsible they are.
So look at how well they take responsibility when they are going to work about different projects or
particular problem.
Um, ask them about their failures and how they react on the failure.
Could be a good way.
Many, many of the hiring experts will advise me to do that, and I practiced.
But that is not probably the best way for me to assess the responsibility.
I like to ask them and go outside of the work how responsible person you are.
Give me an example.
Show me an example where you as a great responsible about your work.
Show me an example where you was really responsible for your team.
So these are two questions can really help you to understand.
So what they really say, I mean what the story they are saying and how reliable is the story.
Does the story goes with the personality of the person?
Because when you are sitting with a person that when you are already interviewed 100 plus people already,
you have some kind of mental block in your mind.
If you already, like 100 people interview you, you exactly already know what is a mental block about.
I was thinking that it is terrible thing.
It will never happen about mental block.
But after being on this journey, that mental block is such an important aspect because you can your
rate of of accurate decisions will go more faster when you have that mental block.
So you from the mental block, you can see that candidate, that how well they are.
And then asking a little more questions can help you to fill up those mental block gaps, to come to
conclusions about that candidate.
Number three ideas.
You need to see that how creative they are.
Because if you see that one, there is a research that has been done with IBM with 1600 CEOs all over
the world.
And one of the questions was asking them, what skill do you need to make your companies future proof
without any risk?
And and 50% of them said that we need more creative people.
And that's exactly so, right.
Because you need all those creative people, because creative people is going to bring ideas.
Some of the ideas maybe will not be great, but some of the idea will be able to differentiate yourself
so much.
So if you have a more creative people around you who continuously, continuously bringing ideas to your
team, that's the big game winning.
And that's what biggest mistake a lot of entrepreneurs and managers does because they play about this
one with ego.
The thing that they have always that the the best idea because they are the boss and that's how the
whole thing get collapsed.
And that's I'm radically crazy about this one.
Like if I'm the table, I'm even sitting down with a director or managers.
And in the meantime, and if I see that an intern has the idea compared to better than anyone else in
the table, I'm going to trash all the ideas.
I'm going to do that idea.
Let's do that.
Everybody need to do that.
Everybody.
I'm gonna.
I'm gonna push everyone in my in my team.
Let's do that.
Because that's the best idea.
So here we go.
Your question will be about how creative they are, what kind of idea they have.
You can simply ask them, okay, tell me some an idea you have find out in your life which actually
add you more value in your life.
So that means that will show that how much care, how much careful, how much improvement they are working
on.
Or then you can ask them, okay, you have seen our products.
Can you tell us an idea which which you could do to improve but be more specific?
You cannot um, they may ask you, this is what I have received.
One of the interview in my life is about they ask me an idea and I say, in what perspective do you
want to have an idea?
They say, as a customer, I say that as a customer I want this, this, this, but which is probably
not a point of interest when you are an employee of this company, because my point of interest is completely
different than when you were an employee rather than a customer.
So getting asking them idea to see that how creative they are is one of the way for you to understand
how a player is that person.
Number four.
This is very important energy level.
You got to see the level of energy of the person.
If the person is coming with a low energy to an interview, that person may have a it can come from
the many problem number one, maybe that person have a poor environment.
So if the person somebody has a poor environment, how they can give you probably doesn't mean that
like less money.
No, they have a system around them that maybe they are having a toxic relationship, or maybe they
have a not the right mindset of life partners, or maybe the family they are living, or maybe the environment
they are into.
It are not energy.
They probably those energy environment is sucking them out.
Or probably the second thing, probably they don't have the right discipline, they don't do the right
decision.
They don't sleep, eat and everything.
So without having all this thing, they will not have great energy to.
So another thing is about the probably quite lazy as well.
That could be a reason that they probably don't have a great work ethic, so they have a low energy
on that one.
And the fourth thing is could be another reason is about the probably not excited about you.
The problem is simply not excited about your product.
They are probably not excited about company, so why they're in the Typekit probably just need a job.
And these are the people will not be the winner.
You probably need these kinds of people in some sort of your team, but if you are talking about winning
and creative difference of your team, these kinds of people will not be able to make a difference for
you.
So you got to think about these are the four peoples and aspects you can consider to make sure that
you are actually taking high, high energy people.
So me, I love taking high energy people I like in few months, few weeks ago, I was I was interviewing
a business development manager and he never worked in the industry.
And he was not amazing in her presentation, but his energy level, he has like that brutal level,
energy level.
And I was giving, giving him, asking him challenges and he's coming for more and he want to get things
more.
You want to get things done.
And that's the point.
Energy level make him different.
Finally, I offered him giving me the Opportunity to take in the challenge and win them over.
And if you have a high energy, you always the highest possible probability that you will have the trust
from your team.
And also you will able to trust yourself that you can do it because you can.
Do attitudes come from your energy too?
So here we go.
If you're a hiring manager, this is the fourth aspect you can easily differentiate to find out who
is the A player.
So here we go.
I give you four tips to identify the A players.
So go ahead and turn there players to build a successful team.
Or you fix yourself and become a player so you could become a part of a great team to win forward.
But here's the one success.
You're only destinations when you're working for a particular goals.
So let's go there as a team together with your team.
All the best.

--- Build Your Brand, Earn a Certificate, and Inspire Change ---

Your certificate is your achievement.
So every time you finish a course, you get a certificate.
And now your goal is to collect the certificate first.
And then you're going to utilize it and you announce it and build up your profile, the platform like
LinkedIn.
So now how to get the certificate first.
Okay.
Whenever you finish a course in Udemy it comes to the final page.
Congratulations on finishing your courses.
Yeah.
And then you go top right corner.
You say get certificate.
You click that one and you can click the get certificate.
And as soon you do this one immediately open up in a new tab.
And it basically gives you the certificates here.
But now let's talk about the situation.
Let's say for example, you are in this situation and by accidentally you close that out, where are
you going to get it right.
So let's say this is the situation.
You log in to the Udemy and this is how you see.
So what do you do.
You go to the my learning and you go to the my old learning.
And you see all the learning you have done.
So to get the certificate you must finish the course 100%.
Let's say example, this course is 100% finish already.
You click into it and it will open into it.
And then you just go in the top right corner.
It's always there for you.
So all you need to do just click into it and you click the get certificate.
And then it will be up front here for you.
And now the goal is to just simply save it.
So now to save it have many multiple options.
You can directly share it.
When you click this one you can share in X Facebook.
I mean it's easy to share it out by clicking that icon or LinkedIn to yourself, but not the ideal way
of doing this one, because I'm going to show you to really build the LinkedIn profile for you, which
can give you the ultimate advantage for you.
To which I'm going to explain to you in in the next coaching session.
So stay with me for right now.
You could just put an X if you want to announce.
If you put in a Facebook it's fine.
So the goal is to first download it right.
It has the dates.
And these are the numbers that are really valuable thing.
This is the surrogate ID reference number and so on.
So now click into it.
Ideally you can download a PDF or you can JPEG.
Not a problem.
So now let's for example I'm downloading in JPEG and now it's coming to all the way.
It's open up the next step two.
It's not downloaded yet.
It's still in the browser.
So all you need to do is right click into it and you can choose the save image as and then you write
it down.
Productivity.
This is my productivity course certificate from VS Pro Academy.
And then you press save.
And now your course the certificate is finally downloaded.
So these are the information going to be really really valuable for you.
And and because you're going to utilize all of this one to show this is how 100% valid the certificate
is, that means you literally did this one.
You do not just Photoshop it or you do not collect it from AI photo generator like most people does
it right now.
So you can actually legitimately show this one.
This is a real certificate.
And now basically I have downloaded this one.
I'm going to go down and there is my certificate already been downloaded here.
So this is how you can download all the certificate.
And I suggest you you must download all the certificate.
There is no way you should miss out the opportunity to showcase your showcase your achievement in a
platform like LinkedIn.
And I'm going to show you right now how you can do it in an effective way, and I'll see you in the
next session right now.

--- Co-Pilot Leadership Model Mental Model for AI-Powered Decision-Making ---

Lucy 4.0 is hard.
Not really.
If we learn how to use some powerful mental model.
And through this coaching session, I'm going to explain you, train you, and upskill you about one
other mental model.
The mental model I will be talking about and coaching you in this one is AI as a copilot mental model.
So the mental model is about don't see as an AI as a replacement, but use the AI as one of your co-pilot.
That means every important decisions you're going to make in your any part of your life, particularly
at work.
Always get the AI to give you a tons of idea and then use your experience, expertise, knowledge,
intuition, everything together.
You can choose the right idea to move it forward.
But one thing is always going to be very critical for you is about judgment.
Because you if you think that upon that, hey, I don't need to improve myself.
I can just get everything from AI you're going to lose.
Because one thing you're going to be always important for you is about the judgment.
Before the creating idea was was your main task.
But now, copilot, I can give you all those creating idea and then you develop your own judgment skills
to choose the right idea, and then you take it to the next level.
So that's why developing a better judgment skill is more important than ever for an executive or a leader
right now.
So now how to apply this model for moving forward?
Every important aspects you want to do.
Always ask to give AI to three different options and scenario moving forward to you, and then get for
AI insights to look for different blind spot.
You have probably missed out in your own thinking, and force the AI to give you the right data to light
up all those blind spot for you.
And the third thing is about not just use AI for efficiency, but use AI to identify different blind
spots, uncover different human overlooks.
And the final step is about now you make your judgment.
What is the right options to take on and moving forward?
So through that aspect, you have actually run through AI to become your copilot.
You are now seeing AI as a replacement, but also an integration power for you to become more effective
and more and someone who can produce better outcomes.
Let's talk about one example in action.
Unilever.
Use AI for all customer data, and they're always constantly looking by using AI for different customer
trends.
And what is the outcome of that?
One Unilever leadership team can produce any new product six months faster compared to its peer.
And here's the leadership tips.
The leader or executive who embrace AI without being fearful about AI, they start to unlock an incredible
outcome for their own career and for their company as well.
And now you have got the mental model.
It's time for you to apply it moving forward.

--- Congratulations! You have completed ! ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Data Flywheel Effect Mental Model for Data-Driven Leadership ---

Digital leaderships or leadership 4.0 is hard.
Not really.
If you learn how to use mental model and through this coaching session, I'm going to give you a mental
model which can help your digital leadership easier and more efficient moving forward.
So how can you do that?
And what is the leadership mental model are we talking about?
So let's get started.
So the mental model we are talking about is about data flywheel model.
This is a mental model is a very interesting aspect because every piece of data helps us to make a better
decision.
On the other side, every piece of decision give us more data.
So it's a very incremental aspect of us more decision.
We make more data, we get more data, we get more better decision making.
So it's like a flywheel effect.
And it creates an amazing flywheel effect for our right decision making and which help us to really
thrive or to make a better outcome for our role, for our team and for our company.
So now how can we apply this one?
I'm going to share with you step by step, moving forward, moving forward, every possible decision
you want to make.
You are looking for at least three data points.
First, data point means it could be different entity.
It could be different direction.
It could be different path.
It could be different opinions.
I mean data driven opinions.
I mean, second thing is about create a team dashboard where you track your KPIs and progress and also
different outcome.
Your teams and yourself are driving forward.
Third action is about hold a weekly data review meetings with your team where the team will want to
talk about different key data they have discovered, which actually create a aha moment, or even help
them to make the right decision moving forward.
Sounds like a very small and simple thing to execute, but this is actually highly effective for creating
a great breakthrough effect for a leader, or for the team, and even for the company.
Let's talk about a example in action.
How do you know about Airbnb?
Of course, you probably have booked and stayed in their room.
Do you know this one?
The price is not actually stable.
They actually look into the preference of the guest and then adjust the pricing by using AI with a micro
adjustment in real time, and presented the price to the potential guess and what it leads to them.
Get them 30% higher in a booking rates and that's what lead to back to us that one.
We can get at least 30 to 40% more effective as a leader by using tracking our progress.
Because this rule is very simple, the thing we cannot see, we cannot measure, the thing we cannot
measure, we cannot improve.
But here's the point.
Seeing and measuring.
We can completely outsource right now to AI, because I can do this one and even come to help us to
identify different actions to.
So now you got this mental model right now.
So let's apply in your your work, in your team, in your company and be a leader 4.0.

--- Digital Twin Thinking Mental Model For Digital-First Leadership Skills ---

Lucy 4.0.
Sounds like a compound to you.
Maybe not, but let's make it more easy, because I use a red hat to make it always easy for me.
And the great hack is if I use different mental model.
And in this coaching session, I'm going to give you a very productive and effective mental model,
which is going to make your leadership 4.0 easy and successfully embarrassing to you.
So what is it?
It's all about digital twin thinking.
So in your department you have a team, you have people and all the physical thing, even the people
and the process, everybody in place, they are like a physical part of the team.
But now on the other side, let's think about a digital twin of that one.
And what is that concept?
It's about dashboard.
It's about KPI, it's about the tools.
It's about the AI you use.
So creating that tool side of it, the physical version and the digital version of it, and that can
give you always thinking about anything I'm creating in the physical side.
How do I create a digital version of that one?
by leveraging the digital tool and AI and so on.
So now the question is about how can we apply that mental model?
I'm going to show you three aspects you can apply moving forward.
Right now.
The first one let's think about you have to run your team completely remotely.
Since Covid 19 pandemic all over the world, a remote working was a big bonus.
But let's just step back and think about you have to work with completely remotely.
So now what is the process tools you need to be in place for you to run your team to deliver better
outcome, what you have done in the last quarter.
And that's a big part of it.
It's not about just running the team.
Just keep the light on.
It's about creating better outcome compared to what you have done in the last quarter, because that
is what it takes to build a right digital twin for you, because that will get you the thinking, that
set of tools you really need always in your hand and also execute them.
Number two, treat every process as you refers to.
How do I can digitize that one.
And how can you use the automation and enhancement to even get it done by itself, rather than with
getting actually pushing that forward to?
So that is another hack into it, how we can really enhance our time.
Because anything we automate, we do one thing, we save time.
So when we save time, what can we do?
We can use that time to do a better work, which can create better value for our own team, for our
company.
So as a result, as a company, move forward.
The third thing you could do, you could build up a personal leadership tech stack.
I know most of the time people like to wait for HR department or even IT department to give you the
tools, but you don't need to wait for that one.
You should be thinking.
And all of us are constantly doing research about what kind of tools you really need to track your project,
track the performance of your team, what kind of tools you really need to even get a customer better.
What are the tools you really need to understand the market trends and so on.
And you should be constantly having that tool suite and also improving them moving forward.
Because every day or every quarter, there's a new tool coming.
No, I didn't mean that.
You have to put new tools every day in your suite, but you will be looking for it and you will be seeing
this one.
What other tool can give you a better outcome?
What is the other tool can save you more period of time so you can actually spend the time to do other
valuable things moving forward.
I'm not telling you also to do less, because doing less is a bad idea, but doing more effective and
become more productive is a great idea.
And that's the point I'm actually mentioning here.
Let me give you an example.
Siemens leadership team created a digital twin which actually allowing them to test any changes in a
virtual environment before applying it in the real world environment or in their factories.
So what's the outcome of that one?
So that is actually reducing the planning cost by 30%, 30%.
So that cost stays in the company and help the company to moving forward.
And as a leader, you need to come up with such kind of great idea.
So look around.
Around you.
What are the things you can utilize?
Digital skill and digital tool to save the cost, or even you can enhance.
Or you can also enhance the productivity or outcome of your teams, or your departments or your company.
Or you can add more values with existing resource and cost and time as well.
And that is what is required for leader in a company right now.
So here's the point is about leaders who think they are part human and part machine.
They have the mindset of a superhuman ability.
And that's exactly what the company looking for.
And that's exactly what we call a leader 4.0.

--- Effective Follow-Up: Lead with Clarity, Not Micromanagement ---

Fully up.
Should not feel like babysitting yet over 60% of the managers say their biggest frustration with the
delegation is having to consistently check in or chase people.
And good news here is the one according to the Google Manager project.
The best manager would follow one pattern the don't micromanage to create a trust loop.
Now, in this coaching session, I'm going to show you how you can do that as well.
Once I was coaching one of the marketing manager, Jennifer, and one of the problem Jennifer came on
in my coaching is to talk about this.
Every time I delegate, I spend more time following up than if I just do it myself.
The problem is not about the task.
It's not having the right system to get them done with the right quality.
So then I coached Jennifer, building on the right coaching reminder rhythm.
So which solve the problem for Jennifer then moving forward in a few weeks period of time when every
time Jennifer was delegating to her team member, Remember she was getting much more better outcome
moving forward.
And over time she came to a really good position where the team was always know how to get things done
to the to her expectation.
So what is the thing outcome?
The outcome?
How stress significantly dropped and outcome was a much more higher what she was looking for.
So the question is about how can you get it done?
I'm going to give you three frameworks which you can apply to create a great checking frameworks and
follow up frameworks.
And all the delegation will be much effective, so you don't have to chase through the goals moving
forward.
The first one is about weekly checking versus micro checking.
Most managers default to two extremes.
No follow up at all or constant checking is called a micro management.
So what I want to tell you is about instead use a hybrid approach.
So first weekly check in 20 to 30 minutes to review progress blockers, next steps, ideas for project
alignment and the deeper support.
The second one is micro check ins, quick slack or WhatsApp message, or a two minute hurdles to stay
on radar without hovering.
So here's the rule of thumb check in without checking up.
The second framework I want to give you the trust loop.
The Google Project manager significantly using that one really well.
Google's Project Oxygen found that high performing teams thrive when there is a frequent, consistent,
and non-controlled interaction.
So we call that one a trust loop.
And this is how the loop works.
Step number one clear task with context.
Number two agreed.
Follow up rhythm.
Number three feedback exchange both ways by the way.
And number four is about recognition of progress.
And number five is repeat.
So this loop create psychological safety and ownership inside your team.
And your team always feel they have been seen and validated and recognized.
The third framework I'm gonna give you two is about KPI versus feedback and dashboard and signals.
Managing follow up isn't just only about the data, it's about interpreting the right signals.
So first KPIs quantitative result, example.
Number of proposals sent.
Lead close ticket.
Resolve number.
Type two is our soft signals tone in meetings.
Small deadlines.
Energy in updates.
Use the dashboard for hard data.
Use your ears, eyes, and sympathy and empathy for everything else.
So here's the thing I want to give it to you.
This is how you use this questioning moving forward with your team.
Don't just ask where are we?
Ask what's working and what's getting on your way.
Now I want to take on a few minutes to reflect on this, because this is going to help you with this.
Through this coaching program, I'm actually leveling up your leadership ability.
So this reflection is going to one bytes of data one two.
Think back to your last delegated task.
Did you check in or did you chase?
What would have made the process smoother for both you and your team?
I want to pause the video and write it down.
This answer on this question to notepad or for any file open or if your notebooks and then get back
to me.
So pause the video, write it down, and get back to me right now.
So I have already coached you three frameworks, but I'm going to give you four pro tips which will
help you right now to apply those frameworks smartly and get a great result in your delegation process.
Ready?
Of course you are.
Let's get started.
The first set checking during the briefing of the delegation.
Agree on when and how you will follow up while delegating this.
Avoid awkward random chasing later.
Number two use a shared tracker.
Keep progress visible using tools like notion, asana, Trello, or Google Sheets.
Visibility creates accountability.
Number three use AI or automation.
Tools like notion AI or Slackbot can remind your team and you to follow up without.
You have to do that work.
Number four celebrate micro wins.
Recognition is fuel.
A quick great job on the update.
Closes the trust loop and boost engagement.
Now I want to take you to the next reflection point about this topic.
Look at your current projects.
Where are you chasing instead of checking in with trust?
What would change if you follow up?
Were proactive, not just reactive.
I want to write this answer in your in your notebook or in your a WordPad is open to you and then get
back to me because this is going to helping you.
This is your transformation.
So don't skip this part.
Write it down.
And then you see the real transformation happening through you.
And you become a great leader making great impact for our organization.
So pause the video, write it down and get back to me.
Well done.
You just did this one.
So now you have moved on with this factor two.
So moving forward, always use this framework to make your delegation more effective.
And I cannot wait to see how successful you become in your organization and in your career to make great
impacts moving forward.

--- Elevate Your Game: Tactical Approaches to Skyrocket Productivity ---

Today we're going to talk about how to be more productive, how to achieve more, bigger things in professional
life.
As an entrepreneur, it's so much important to be really great productive on the way so you can achieve
the get things done every day.
You can get more things done that can really help you to boost your success, right?
So today in this video, I'm going to show you a four thing, which is really stopping you to be more
productive.
And if you can really be focused about those four and if you can fix them, you can significantly improve
your productivity.
You want that, right?
So what are you waiting for?
Number one is called inability to say no.
It's so much important that when you need to say no, when you are already overloaded, when you are
already full, and if you keep taking more, which actually two things are going to happen, the new
things which you're taking on will not be able to do it on time.
And also the things is already in your bucket.
You're not going to do it so well to so so.
But there is a few things you could do is about you could plan that forward like an example.
This need to be done.
It can be done now.
It can be done too.
So it's very important to know when you're having a professional talk, you're getting a particular
task from your boss or from your teammates.
Discuss about it.
Saying no means don't say yes.
just.
I cannot do it.
This is not the answer.
The answer is okay, I need that amount of time by that amount of time.
Talk about a plan.
Prepare a plan and tell them so.
That's the way.
So an example.
If you've been pulled out for a conference speech or you pulled out in another community event.
So you know, if that's the time is suitable for you, are you available on the time?
So rather than I just saying that, say, no, I cannot do this one.
Think about the two things you could do.
You could say by when you will be able to do it.
It is not a specific time.
The second thing you can talk about, if is a specific time, you can talk to your mess and say, okay,
I can connect you to someone who will be helping you with this one.
So that is the one of the best way to say no and also be productive and also get things done on the
way to.
Number two fear of chaos.
So like an example, you're doing certain certain field of things at the same time.
And now if you've been really scared because if you add more things then it will be just messed up.
And that's not really working well.
So that means if you're really doing well, some sort of period of thing and you cannot add more things
into that one.
So that means the way you are doing is not really a process oriented.
You're doing just with the feeling and doing here and there.
Here and there.
So this is really good in one sense when you have a small amount of things, but when you have to be
more productive, you need to innovate it and you need to experiment and you need to do this one, that
the things you are really doing well, you need to learn from it and build a process or template around
it so you can keep doing this good thing again and again every day.
And then when you take on the more thing and you can mold it around, and it can also build another
template or process and enrich your existing process.
So that's the way you need to avoid being fair.
But think about what you're doing, something how you can build a template, and you can keep doing
a repetitive reproducible in that same process and replicate that over time, again and again.
So that will show you you can easily scale up and you can do more on the way in a particular day or
a particular project, particular initiatives, anything you want to do in your life.
Number three poor health, healthy if you are unhealthy person.
If you are having, um, having having a stomach or you have a bad stomach, you have a bad health,
you have a bad lifestyle, you have a drinking problem, you have a carbohydrate intake problem, sugar
intake problem.
Sooner or later your body is going to just simply give up.
You will.
Your body will probably even give up.
The sad part is before you achieve your success.
So it's so much important and you need to have a really good, healthy habit.
Because if you don't have a healthy habit, you will not be able to last long.
Because to become successful, you need to go at a certain period of places.
And if you are not going there in that level, and if you just stop, you're done.
And if you just help, just simply give up on you, you even you want, you will not be able to go there
too.
So that's why if you have a good health, you will be able to do more and you have the right energy
because it's related to other five pillars of your energy management as well too.
And then you can use it because physical energy is one of the energy number for the environment, simply
doesn't support to you.
So that means the company you are working on, the company culture is could stop you to become more
productive.
The boss you are working on probably not the boss right away to actually help you to explain more and
take more initiative and get some problem done to you.
Probably have a wrong business partner that could be a problem to you, could have a wrong colleagues,
you could have a bad friend circle as well.
So they just do party too much.
They probably night out.
They keep calling.
You could have a wrong life partner as a wife, or you could have a wrong girlfriend or boyfriend as
well in real life.
So that can hinder your productivity and success because they just they have an unhealthy lifestyle,
or probably they have an unproductive lifestyle and they will suck in your productivity to their life
because you need to do it a lot of unproductive activity with them.
And at the end of the day, you are not getting productive.
So these are the four things can really a real thief of your productivity life and can really drag you
down to a failure or even a significantly downgrade your productivity levels.
If you fix this, any of these four, you will be significantly able to avoid being unproductive and
stay on your course of your success.

--- Energize Your Performance: Strategies for Managing Your Energy Levels ---

Welcome.
We're going to talk about some really exciting topics about.
There is a lot of people ask me that, John, how do you manage such kind of schedule you have?
You are a CIO chief information officer.
You're doing business transformation in your professional life, and then you're also a founder of Vista
Group, which is a 350 people into it.
You're a speaker, you're a writer.
You're also making videos as well too.
You've been doing your non-profit activities.
How do you how do you make time?
Why are you never tired?
Are you feeling tired or are you feeling overall overwhelmed?
Congratulations!
Because in this video, I'm going to share with you my secrets why I'm never tired.
So you want to use probably one of them, or few of them, or all of them to make yourself get going
and get bigger things done, right?
You want that?
So let's get started.
Number one, I tied to happiness.
I always focus about this type two happiness.
Let me explain to you what is this.
So type one happiness is comes from an outcome of an instant activities.
Let's say you have something sugar or you have it and you take a sweet drink, or you have a Coca-Cola
or Pepsi, or you go jump to the swimming pool.
So this is like an instant happiness for your particular action or intake.
So, so these are like great for instant happiness.
But in the long term, the ROI of this happiness is not good because most of the sugar drink is going
to ruin your health.
And, and and probably getting such kind of activity done, which for even instant happiness can distract
you for your overall productivity or overall mission of the day.
But there is a type two happiness.
Where is is about is about you.
You focus for a goal, you strive for it, and you be efficient and you get it done on time and you
share the success of the happiness.
So for me, I focus about this type two happiness every day.
I like to focus about making the best out of my day, every possible day and end of the day I celebrate.
So that really helped me out to to get that happiness of type two.
So when I go to bed.
So finally I can go for a great sleep because I was burnt out every possible energy of me.
So now I'm going to sleep and I'm going to sleep really deep and get myself ready for a great tomorrow.
So that type two happiness is actually preparing me for a great sleep.
Because end of the day, you need to have a great sleep and to have a great sleep.
The type two happiness is really, really helpful.
Type two.
Type one.
Happiness is not much helpful for you to get a good sleep, so I really always pay attention having
a right sleep.
And it comes from many things, but one of them is type two happiness.
Number two the little exercise.
Every day, every day I like to do a little bit of exercise some day it probably very busy at work.
I don't have enough time.
So what I will do if I see in my schedule is so packed, I'm going to always take the stair to get up
to my work.
So let's say about my job was my office was in great in the level 12 and I was in parking in a in basement
two.
So basement two, -12 I go and park my and then I take the stairs to go to the work, and then I work,
and then I can take the stair to go, go down for the lunch, come up after the lunch, and then and
probably getting down one more time during the post lunch to get something for fruit or something.
And then after work I'm going down with the stair again.
So up and down.
So this really helped me out.
So the day I figured out that I'm going to be really packed.
So I'm going to use that stair way to get my exercise done.
And, and like an example even I'm in right now, I'm shooting the video in Kobe.
So what I'll do, I'll do some exercise even at home.
So I got my few gears about about dumbbells at home so I can do some some bicep training.
And sometime you just not only physical particle organ training, you need to do some freehand exercise,
which is really good.
Some say that when when you are 30 already, it's so good to do a free hand exercise which you're going
to distribute for all body exercise.
So I do push ups, I do, I do sit ups.
So that really helped me out.
Rather than doing a gym materials.
So that is one of the things I like to share with you, that I have always been very obese.
I used to be 34 kilos of weight six years back and I reduced 25 kilos, which is right now.
What you're saying is basically almost 30 kilos less than what I used to be.
And I did not go to gym.
And anytime I did not play any gym membership, I did not take any kind of medicine medication.
It's all about doing 300 exercises and being consistency so you can and but right now I don't do it.
But I do small exercise every day.
So if you want to have never want to feel tired, do small exercises every day that will bring you forward.
That really, really helped me out.
Number three, I use an alarm clock.
It's really important.
It's about I use the alarm card even in the night to announce that it's time to go back.
So like an example when there is no not enough Covid issues.
So I go out in the evening, but I have an alarm in my clock which actually trigger me up and let me
know that, okay, this is the time to go back home.
So I had a certain period of time which I don't want to be outside anymore, because if I stay outside
after that time, I'll be exposed to in an environment which will keep me stimulated and keep my brain
awake, and that will impact my overall sleep when I come back to home.
So.
So I like to come back home as soon as the alarm is triggering and come back home.
Turn off my alarm and then I'm going to take a rest, take a shower, clean my face, change and get
comfortable myself and prepare myself to mentally that okay, next 1 or 2 hours I'm going to sleep.
I probably will read something or watch something.
Uh, reading is better actually.
Or listen to something.
And then I'm going to go and go to sleep.
So that's, that's the second thing I do.
And the second time when in the morning, I also use the alarm clock as well too.
I use multiple Oracle soft and hard alarm.
So soft alarm really helped me out to to understand that okay, it's time to almost need to wake up
and then hard alarm will miss.
Okay, this is the deadline.
I must get up right now because I got some commitment.
I'll go to work or I have a meeting, or I'm going to have something to, um, meet someone.
Or probably I need to go out someone because I have a commitment, an appointment outside, even in
the weekend.
So I use alarms every day.
Actually, not just 1 or 2 days.
Number three.
No caffeine after 4:00.
So I read about a book a nutritionist mentioned about it.
If you take coffees after 4:00, it has a significant impact.
So I used to be a very big coffee addict.
I even still owns two coffee machines, but I don't really like to use them much for one reason is that
one, because if I use this coffee machine, it's really.
It really helped me make me more challenged to take more coffees, because now I limit my coffees to
two coffees per day.
But before I was taking like 4 or 5 coffees a day and I used to take coffee 4 p.m., 3 p.m. 6 p.m. but
now I set up a rule that one I never take coffees up to 2 p.m. my morning coffee is done.
My lunch coffee is right after my lunch.
So after 2:02 p.m. there will not be any coffee.
I will even not take any kind of of of tea even two.
So that is one of the thing that really helped me to sleep at night.
That means all over the day when I get everything done, go home, change, do evening activities and
go to bed.
It's really helped me up because coffee is caffeine stays in the brain and in the blood for a really
long period of time.
And I got a sleeping problem by taking like five coffees and then I could not sleep.
And then doctor told me that cut down the coffee and it was hard for me to cut down, but when I successfully
cut it down, it really helped me to fix that problem moving forward.
So that's the thing I do is about no coffees after 2:00, and that really helped me to eat a good sleep
because end of the day, in the core, having a good sleep is so important.
Number five get a blackout curtain.
Yes, I'm sitting down in in a window right now, but it's connected to my my room.
But whenever I go to the bed, I'm going to close down every other windows, make sure that it's completely
dark, because when you're in the light, it takes a much more, longer time for me to sleep.
So and I want to sleep really deep.
And that's the way only possible is I'm trying to get it as soundless as possible.
So actually, I even don't use much wall clock because wall clock after midnight it makes tick tick
tick tick sound.
So I get rid of any kind of wall clock.
I used to have a wall clock before, but that was impacting me to go to sleep.
So now I get rid of a wall clocks.
And the second thing is about I close down the old curtains, make it a complete blackout.
And now it really helped me to sleep better.
Number six is having optimal sleeping temperature.
That is a different people, has different kind of temperatures, but normally body temperatures is
normal.
Temperatures is like around body temperature.
If you could maintain that temperature that's like the best possible temperature.
Somebody can can sleep better.
So for me, I figured out that I never sleep really well when I turn on the air conditioner.
So normally what I do before going to the bed, I turn on the notification, the aircon, cool the room
and then turn it off and then use the fan.
And that really helped me up to have a body temperature during the night.
So my body can be itself rather than enforced by other temperatures.
And let me sleep better.
Six um, getting a comfortable pillow and the matrix is so much important for me.
I figured out that having the right pillow is one of the crucial part for me to sleep really well,
because if I have a wrong pillow, I will not sleep really well.
So normally I have two pillows in my bed, so I really pay attention to which is exactly the better
one for me to sleep.
And normally one of the key thing happens when you keep using pillow.
Normally it starts shrinking and it starts reducing the volume of it, and that's how it starts to become
problem.
So if you are having pillow something more than one year, it start to get shrinking down.
It's time for you to get a change.
So for me, I always pay attention about the pillow size and and use my pillow.
And when I see it start to shrink to different shape and I start to get headaches.
Actually, when I wake up in the morning, I don't feel that fresh.
So.
So when I see that it start to shrink, I immediately change it out.
So that little amount of money of investing, changing the pillows really helped me to get a good sleep.
And that really can bring up the energy forward in my life all over the day.
Number seven is about I like to start a day to achieve something.
I'm not just starting the day because I just want to go through the day.
I want to do something on the day and to achieve something.
I got something to do in my professional life.
I get something to doing.
I get something to learn, get something to speech about.
So I plan my day well ahead.
And now I my I start my day is not just I want to just finish them as a checklist, but I really wanted
to get them done in the best possible way and whatever.
If I did something like this yesterday, today, I want to do a little better on that one compared to
yesterday.
So that really get me the stimulation of that, that like my own credit, like caffeine, really boost
me up and tell me that, hey, I got to get going, get it done.
So like an example now I'm shooting the video.
It's already 10:30 p.m., but this is in my list that I want to shoot this video to share this skill
set with you.
Look at me.
It's shooting 10 p.m. you can see the dark out there.
Out there.
It's 10:30 p.m..
I'm shooting the video.
Do I look tired?
I'm not.
Because I'm looking into it because I want to get it done today.
And probably this is the last video I'm shooting tonight and I'm and I'm thinking, I think I still
have some more energy.
Should I get another one?
And that's related to my tip number eight is about tomorrow what I want to do today, what I'm doing
is really good, which I just said tomorrow.
I want to do something.
What I'm doing today.
So to do something, anything better, I need some more extra motivation to myself.
So I also find myself always to motivate myself to do anything I'm doing today.
And if I do anything of them tomorrow that need to be a little more better.
So the end of the day, the self-reflection of what I have done and the things I have done today, I
want to do slightly more better.
So it's like tomorrow is going to be more exciting than what it is today, because I'm going to do something
more better than what I have done today.
And that is the extra kicker that keeps me inside of me and saying that one, hey, get it done.
So that means the last two point is very much about your own control, your own mindset.
You don't need to be.
So I pay attention about these two.
I can completely control myself and I don't need to be depend on anyone else on these two.
So my mindset has become very independent and I can use it on the things to make sure that I never get
tired.
So here are my key.
Key key takeaways.
My eight tips for you, which I really do in my own life to make sure that I never get tired.
So that's why I do the things I want to do.
And I don't feel tired and I find me motivated myself doing that.
What I'm trying to do is working because I'm not tired, so I can do a great effort about it too.
So if you have any problem about getting tired, you can use any of my tips.
So here we go.
You want to achieve something in your life as a professional?
An entrepreneur doesn't matter.
You need to have a great energy and you have to avoid being bogged down with a lot of a lot of tired.
I mean, this is a video.
You got the eight tips which are really using into it.
Go ahead and use your life.
Get some really amazing things done in your entrepreneurship or professional life and become successful.
And I want to give you a biggest clap here.
All the best.

--- Engagement Unlocked: Making Online Meetings Work for You ---

In this video.
Like I told you that total ten tips to boost your Online meeting program online meeting training ability
as a leader so you can create great results.
You want that, right?
Let's get started.
Number one, remind the meeting.
It's so much important that when your staffs are working in front of you in office, that the people
can easily can remind them.
Normally people look at the camera or even they're working on a lot of things, right?
There's a there's a focusing on something.
So there is a good calendar into something they often miss.
But there is a lot of other people going to the meeting.
They can bump to each other and say, tap to each other, hey guys, let's go for a meeting too.
But when they're at home alone, there is no one actually reminding them about the meeting.
So that's the way it comes to your point is you need to do that reminding thing.
So there's a few things you could do is about you definitely send out the agenda and the calendar invitations
to join them.
You can notify them in the earlier day of the meeting.
Let's say you're meeting in the afternoon at 12 or 2:00.
You can 9:00 you can send a notification.
Hey guys, today at 12:00 we have a meeting.
Guys, just stop the mind if you have any daily quick calls, meetings, the daily daily meetings,
stand ups, you have mentioned about it.
Hey guys, today we have a 2:00.
I have an important meeting.
Make sure that you are actually go through the agenda and get ready for that one.
So that little, little nudge will get them ready to create a momentum and get used to that being an
environment where nobody actually actively telling them to join the meeting.
So most of the company like one of the things I do is, as I mentioned about daily calls, I often organize
about daily calls when I'm working for my staff.
So this really helped them to get the momentum and get them inclusion to the strategy to work together,
even if they are not in the office in different places as well too.
Number two, it's very important to test the technology if there is something really important meeting
coming forward, test the technology.
It's very important test to make sure that the platform has been properly been selected and have been
send it out to everyone.
Like an example, if you're using Google Meet, make sure that the link is included in the invitations.
If you are using zoom, you get the create the link, put it on the invitation, send it out so everybody
has to look in the one place as to where to join and get the details of the agenda, and also how to
join the meeting too.
Otherwise they will be hobbling around different places.
If you're sending on different emails, they have to find different emails and that is quite a hassle.
A lot of people will spend time to find it out, and probably you will have difficulties and you may
even get the calls said, hey, where's the link?
How can I join the call?
And that is quite unwanted, right?
Because you want to focus on getting really get things done in the meeting.
Number three, get a well-defined agenda.
What exactly you want to want to focus about.
So it's very much important that you crop down your agenda.
Make sure that you spend enough time to prepare the right agenda into it and focus.
And then you send out well before the meeting, at least 4 to 5 days ago is the best way to send out
a really clear agenda.
To mention that and write down why you are also conducting the meeting, and why this agenda is going
to be discussed in the meeting, too.
And that's why it's very important that you also choose the right people to join that meeting as well
too.
Number four, it's very important that when you were a manager, your director get a meeting.
Monitors moderator to to work with you to.
So that person can make sure that during admin staff make sure that the PowerPoint is up the screen
sharing is controlled properly being host to make sure that who is staying mute and who is unmute.
So that can be well done because um, and make sure that the moderator can even can make calls to if
somebody is not in the meeting, it's almost the time already.
So that can help you out.
And as a leader, you can really focus about getting the agenda things done and get moving with your
teams.
It's very much important to have and quite helpful to have a moderator.
To help you out, you need to do a rotation example.
If it's your leadership meeting, you can by rotation.
If you have five people, you can give them moderation in by order.
And that's the way you can distribute your or accountability to your different team members.
Train them to be a moderator and also make them more included to the same things you want to get it
done in leadership.
Role number five get the video call on.
This is really important.
I have run thousands of online calls, so running it without the camera and with the camera, it's quite
different because when you're talking without the camera, you cannot see the person and you cannot.
Quite difficult to connect the idea and brain and expression to the person without looking into the
call.
So in a meeting is quite a good, good practice that if you are doing 4 or 5 people and you're really
discussing without any PowerPoints in places, it's a very good idea that getting everyone get their
video call on.
So everybody will be seeing each other and you will feel much more included.
Everybody is much more.
It is easier for them to get engaged on the agenda and to even among themselves as well.
So like a physical.
So number six, it's very important when you start the meeting and now you're going to go through the
agenda.
So before going to the agenda, one of the best thing you could do is about giving two minutes to everyone
to to read the agenda.
So there will there be.
That means they will go through the agenda and they will understand what are the key points they're
going to go through today, why they are in the meeting too.
So it's like a two meter of silence and everybody will read the agenda.
So this is one of the best practices.
Actually Bezos created in Amazon.
And now every meetings in Amazon is is practiced that way.
In the first two minutes everybody must read the agenda and then the meeting will kick off.
Number seven set the time limit.
It's very important that often online meetings keep going and going and going and trying to over, over,
over the time.
So if you are having booked up for one hour for a particular meeting, do the time keeping.
Make sure that you are showing the progress.
One of the gateway of doing this one is when you have a particular agenda.
Let's say you have a five agenda, right?
So you can show the progress when the two agenda is done.
You said, hey guys, we have completed 40%.
Now we're moving to the third agenda and this is the way it is.
So that shows a bit of progress and you can keep reminding them like few or few times like say hey in
the meeting we have 60 minutes.
We will try to do our best to make the best use of time and say, hey guys, it was only 30 minutes
done.
We are 30 minutes means 50% of our time has been burned already in our agenda we are at 40%, so we
are a slightly behind the picture.
Now we want to take a little bit, push our pedal to go ahead to complete the next 60% of our meeting
in the remaining 3,050% of the time.
So let's guys, let's get focused and get going.
So that kind of message as leader will show you that it help you guys to drive the meetings and get
them more included, and see that you are taking charge and being responsible and make people feel that,
you know.
And when you make you feel that one, they will be cooperative with you much more easier and they will
be working with you.
Number eight minimize the distraction.
This is very important to when you are doing online calls with your teams.
Make sure that you are all kind of messaging calls you know, in a particular laptop has been shut down,
or you can shut down those browsers.
If you have a messenger app installed, remove them.
I mean, basically you turn them off or you can just if you're on Mac, you just simply exit them.
Or if you're on windows, you can just close them out just to make sure that they're not running in
the background.
So if somebody just called you up and then or just send you a message, you probably have a notification.
Ding ding ding ding sounds coming on.
It's definitely a lot of disrupting for the team members too, so avoid that disruption.
Number nine assign the rules like an example.
When you're running a particular physical meeting, you have different kind of rules to your teammates,
right.
Or the way you want to run the meeting.
So here you're also doing a bookkeeping.
Make sure that the rules you announce it very clearly and and and enforce the rules and obey the rules
and reward the every team members when they follow the rules and also punish them if they are not getting
the reflection.
Example one of the different company has done in a big company.
Like if you come ten minutes late, they lock the door of the meeting from inside.
From outside they cannot get in.
So the same in online meetings.
If somebody's coming like in 5 minutes or 10 minutes later, you can actually prevent them to join the
meeting.
So that is one of the ways you can give them a message that, hey, you need to be on time in the meeting.
And number ten meeting minutes after every online meeting has been finished.
You.
So one of the great ways as you're already working on the laptop.
So you're keeping going through the videos and you're watching everyone, and you can keep taking a
lot of notes and then turn those notes to a great meeting minutes and meeting a great meeting minutes
always says, always have a set of actions and assigned to a particular people and deliverables.
So make sure that those all been cleared during the interview and during the meetings, and it is not
done yet.
After the meetings, you had a one on one chat or calls with the person and get those things very clear
and send it out the meeting minutes the next 24 hours and that will create the great impact.
So here you go.
If you're if you're already a leader and you're managing your teams online from home or in other places,
you go today.
Ten Tips to Run a Successful Meeting as a leader over the call in a virtual call.
So now use it in your next meeting and create amazing results as a leader.

--- Evolving Your Mindset: Transitioning from Doing to Leading Through Delegation ---

Let me ask you one question very bluntly.
What is the one big mistake almost every leader do every day would cost them a lot of money and end
of the month.
Do you know what is it?
Can you guess?
It's actually doing the thing they should have already delegated to team member.
And actually, according to the Harvard Business Review, the research came out 78% leader confessed
that one they are doing the thing which they should have delegated already.
And here is the worst part about this thing.
And here's the thing.
Leaders who are delegating less almost 33% least productive compared to the other leaders who are delegating
to the team effectively.
So it's not just a time issue, it's also a major mindset issue as well.
Once I was coaching one of the operation manager, very talented.
Sharp.
Her name is Lin.
And what's the thing?
What's happening with Lin is about?
I was asking her why you're not delegating enough?
And the answer is this I don't trust my team member.
If I deliver to them, they will be delivering the right quality.
That's the point.
So moving forward, what I did next 3 to 4 weeks of time, I coached her and where and after those weeks
of coaching and this is what had happened, lean was having almost ten hours per week free up doing
all this work.
And actually her team delivered two completed process without her for the operations.
So what was the change?
The change was this one.
She stopped becoming the doer and become a much effective delegator, and that was the trigger point
for her.
So now let's break down.
What are the key barrier is stopping as a leader to delegate more effectively.
You probably have already seen a lot of them around you, but let me put it all together so you know
the pattern clearly.
So typically there are three mental barriers that actually holding managers to not to delegate effectively.
the first barrier is actually ego.
You think no one can do this like me?
It feels good to be the go to person.
But that mindset trap you in operational quicksand.
You become the bottleneck.
The second barrier is about fear of losing control.
What if they mess up?
What if it reflects badly on me?
Delegation feels like risk, but in reality, not delegating is the bigger risk.
Burnout, missed deadline and underdeveloped teams.
The third barrier is I call perfectionism.
You do rather just do it yourself because you think it will be faster.
But long term, that makes you the single point of failure in your system.
I have studied hundreds of great leaders, and there's one key thing I want to share with you is about
the Great leader.
Always apply 8020 rules, which is also known as Pareto principles for the leadership delegation aspect
as well.
spent 80% of your time on the 20% of the activities that drive the biggest outcome.
Vision, strategy and coaching.
Everything else should be delegated, delayed, automated, or even eliminated.
Now what I want is to pause and ask yourself this.
What's one task on your plate right now that you are holding onto, even though someone else could do
it 80% as well?
Why haven't you let it go?
I'm going to give you total three pro tips which will help your delegation.
Much more thing.
It's not about delegation.
It's not a matter of risk.
It's about how you take the right bet in the right time.
Give the right task in the right time.
Sounds very complicated, right?
But let me give you these three pro tip.
And we're going to make it much easier for you in terms of delegation.
Let's get started.
The first one is delegate to develop.
Stop thinking of delegation as just task sharing.
Start seeing it as talent building.
Every time you delegate, someone of your team grows.
Number two, start with a low risk task.
If you are nervous, start small.
Delegate something that isn't high stakes but requires ownership.
Number three don't delegate and just disappear.
That's a kind of called abdication.
That means you're just telling them to do how they're doing it.
When they're doing it, you don't care about it.
So I'm just thinking about it.
An amazing outcome.
So that's called an abdication.
It's not really delegation.
So that's the point I want to clear for you.
A lot of managers right now in the trap of abdication right now.
So don't get into that thing.
Stay connected with checkpoints, not micromanagement.
These build trust without sacrificing the performance.
Now I want to pause for yourself and think about this question.
If you had 30% more time this week, where would you invest it strategically now?
What you need to let go to make that happen?
I want you to answer this question now.
Write down yourself in your computer, on a notebook, or whatever you have.
Pause the video, write it down, and get back to me because this is going to be healthy for you to
take it.
Amazingly effective for you.
Now I want to take a small action moment with you.
I want you to do this.
I want you to choose one task, even a very small micro task.
You choose to delegate it.
And then I want you to write down what is the thing?
Is holding you back?
What beliefs thing was holding you back to delegate that before?
Now I want you to pause the video right now.
Write it down your post and post it on LinkedIn profile and tag me into the post or in the comment section
and I will get back to you.
So now I'm going to pause the video right now, get it done, and get back to me in a few minutes.
You can use ChatGPT to help to write your posts.
Even better.
No problem.
Well done, you just made it happen.
Your post and I'm looking forward to see your post and I will as soon I get the notification in LinkedIn.
I'll get back to there and meet you there too.
But let me just put you on this thing, right?
Delegation is not about just only time saving, because every time you release any task to your team
member, it's give you the opportunity to develop your leadership vision and do more high value activity
too.
And also on the other side, let your team to develop their capability and grow as well.
You are not here as a leader to do everything.
You are here to lead the people who can.
And I'll see you in the next coaching session.

--- From Average to Outstanding: Cultivating a High-Performance Team Culture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Fueling Success: Proven Techniques to Enhance Team Motivation ---

We're a professional working in corporate or you will have an entrepreneur.
You have your own business.
End of the day.
Most important thing to you is your team.
And it's so much important that as you as an entrepreneur, as a professional, you do the right thing
to motivate your team members so they can keep motivated, keep passionate about it, and then go with
success.
You can bring up the best people of the world of of the team, which even you can bring the people you
cannot even afford by by putting a fortune into it if you put the best headhunter into it.
But at the end of the day, the thing is, going to be most important for you is about how you motivate
them so they stay with you for the longest period of time and share the journey of your success.
So in this video, I'm going to give you a total of seven tips which are going to help you to learn
consistently motivate your teams so you have a team go bigger and greater and keep motivated and achieve
more bigger goal.
You want that, right?
So what are you waiting for?
Let's get started Number one, create a collaborative environment.
So in the team led the other team members talk to each other, let them share with each other.
Because most of the professionals coming to the to to to join your team, they are looking to improve
their experience.
How?
By working on different projects and also they want to improve their their networks as well too.
So how you can really learn best possible way.
Every professional knows that to learn new skills, they need to work with other people.
They need to see what other people are doing, what other people making mistakes, what other people
are becoming successful.
The way I became a CIO at the age of 20, 29 or 30 years old.
So that's the time.
One of the biggest thing.
I always pay attention of what's going on around me, and that really helped me to understand what what
the success of other people, how they are failing.
And I use it as my own favor to.
So every professionals going to join your team, they want to learn, they want to collaborate if you
want to keep them separated between themselves would be a problem.
Secondly, if you distance yourself from them and it's very hard to reach you up, so then you will
never have a great teamwork.
You will never be seeing the motivation when you join the biggest energetic people, the positive positivistic
people.
But if you don't do this thing, you don't connect them.
If you don't motivate them, don't let them talk to you.
Don't.
Don't let them talk to you between them, they're gonna lose the motivation.
So create a collaborative environment.
That's the tip number one.
Tip number two share a vision you need to show as a leader or as a as a director or as an entrepreneur,
you have to share a vision like an example.
You are a professional.
You work in a corporate.
You are one of the employees as well.
You are not the owner.
So what happened to you?
You need to even if you're not a CEO, let's say you are a director.
As a CEO, you can talk about your vision that, hey, we are looking to improve our customer experience
by 20%.
We're looking to grow our market share by another 20%.
We we are looking forward to improve our business process by 30%.
We are looking to increase our productivity by another 30%.
We are going to invest on money, on technology.
So our our we can create more digitalized business twins.
So these are like vision right?
As a CEO even let's say you are a marketing manager.
You are not even a director.
You have to have your own particular vision.
And how you can get your vision is very easy.
Look at the the CEO of your company, what kind of vision they are driving for you.
Listen to it and you break it down.
And what is related to your marketing manager?
Even your IT manager, it's a sales manager.
Break it down and use it as your own vision.
So here's the point.
A lot of CEOs are not really good at communicating that thing.
You probably most likely has a CEO who doesn't know how to speak about it.
So what you need to do, you need to ask them.
You need to ask them what is the vision you are looking for?
What is the thing we are looking for?
What is your key vision this year?
Next five years of time or next ten years of time?
Get the vision, break it down and make it your own personalized vision for your team.
And then share with the team.
Not for only one time in a year ending party or on a on a brainstorming session, you got to share with
you every month, every, every, every.
If you don't want to share it, every tactical meeting, every week, it's kind of too much.
But if you do it every month on your strategic meeting, that would be a great place to talk about your
vision every time.
So that is tip number two.
Share your vision to your team.
Number three, learn to give feedback.
And this is the way you have to learn to give the feedback the best possible way.
It depends on what kind of teams you have.
Because based on the quality and type of teams you have and the target of your teams, you will have
different type of mechanism or feedback you need to learn.
Like an example, there are particular teams which are very aggressive, and they have to go out and
have to talk to the people, and they have to be very aggressive and they have to be an outbound team.
So they're going to make a lot more mistakes.
So if you've been focusing about giving positive and negative feedback, both of them, you will really
can be demotivate them.
An example like an example sales team, marketing team or digital transformation team.
They are very at hyper mode and they are trying to do their best and most possible, fastest possible
way.
So.
So as they are very, very hyper mode, if you are injecting a lot of negative feedbacks, they will
make them slow down.
So you should be focused a really good ratio with them, let's say maybe 90% positive feedback, 10
or 20% negative feedback to make sure that you don't motivate them.
Because end of the day, their nature is their own.
They're going to innovative work.
They're going to they're going to hammer a lot of doors.
They will do some innovative project as a transformation team, marketing team.
They will come up with some crazy idea if you start to give them negative feedback, unless they are
really lazy.
I mean, if you hire a lazy team is a different team, you bring the right people into that.
So if you have the right teams and you got to understand how prone they are making mistakes.
So on that one, you need to decide that how much feedback, negative feedback can you give to them?
Most of the time, focus about giving more positive feedback to the teams who are more error prone because
their nature of work is so creative.
And when you are doing a creative and innovative work, you're going to make mistakes.
It's always like that.
If the sales team doesn't make any mistake, means they are a terrible seller, they are not doing the
thing.
Even they are making revenue.
They could do a lot more by just being innovative in their process.
So that's the thing.
But however, some of the departments are very stable and fixed, let's say finance department example,
they are very not creative.
They are looking at every number accounting.
They are looking at the number two.
You can give them a more fair balance, let's say 60, 40, 60% positive 40% and negative.
So here I'm still telling you, even you don't have to be like 5050 like an exam.
Exactly.
Fair.
You can give more positive feedback and your positive feedback will always keep up the motivation to
your team.
And when it comes to negative feedback, you really need to give.
Give it as a team rather than pointing out that person.
But you can.
If somebody do something really terrible thing, let's say break your core values, let the person go.
Rather than giving a feedback and and create the whole motivation things down to your team.
All right.
Number four understand the work style of your team.
You are a leader, right?
You're a CEO or entrepreneur.
You have your own style.
If you are joining a new team as a manager, you need to adapt their present style first and then you
will help them, motivate them and inspire them to adapt to a new style.
But you got to understand, this is the thing.
Most of the young managers make this terrible mistake.
Or even I have seen some really senior managers with the title not inside senior as a as knowledges,
but also age and and the title they got.
For some reason they come to the team and they try to change everything is the way they want without
understanding the team style.
That is a mistake.
So you got to understand what kind of team style they are, what is the core reason of their life?
Like an example, if all the team members are married, they're not going to go out with you like two
times per week.
You know it, right?
If you see most of the team members, I'd like to bring lunch from their own office to the home every
day.
They will not be going out with you 2 or 3 times per week for having lunch with you even.
It's such a good thing to do.
Even it's such a good thing to go and get a drink and talk more and talk through the different problems.
You will not be able to get it.
So you need to understand the team style.
But however, you got to understand that what is the process of working.
So you coming in, you see their process and you find a way.
What is the step by step you you are going to make changes like an example rather than you come and
push them, drag them to the way you want.
Rather than you go step by step, you go to the extent and inspire them to follow you.
And one day, one week, two months, six months, they will move to the place where you want to be.
So you want to make change.
You still need to understand what is the team working style and lifestyle.
They are into it.
If you want.
If you think that they are, the lifestyle is definitely not going to fit to you.
You need to get people to go out with you two times per per week to have drinks, and you have to talk
through like an example.
You are building something really innovative a sales team or marketing team or digital transformation
teams you are doing will bring the right people into your team.
And then then step by step, you can change and build a new culture, but you got to still understand
your team style.
Number five, you got to learn how to be a true leader and the true leader always lead by example.
You should be.
Rather than focusing about doo doo doo doo doo like that.
Do like that.
This is for you.
Hey, this is a sign for you.
You are responsible.
There's a lot of old, uh, out of date managers do that.
Actually, they say monkey game.
They will tell you it's monkey belong to you.
And this is your problem.
It's not my problem.
I'm here to just see your result.
These are really all the things you got to understand.
People will only follow you when they see that you are creating.
Great example.
If you're really good, show it to everyone.
If you can solve any particular problem, go ahead and take responsibility and show it and create a
framework and tell the team, hey, this problem, this type of problem, this is the framework to solve,
or even you don't need to solve exactly the same company.
You can reference the whole story of your previous experience, the work project you did, exactly how
it's been solved, and you show them and give them a framework and guideline and train them.
They will adapt and they will follow you.
So this is the thing lead by example is the is the next tip.
Tip number six give the personal development opportunity for team members.
Every team members work with them and understand what is the key thing they are doing, and also clearly
define what they need to do and what kind of skill set they need to give to go to the next level.
Every team member in your team should have a career transition plan.
What are you going to get to the next level?
What should they need to achieve to go to the next level?
If you don't do have it, it's a big problem.
If your company you're working on, they don't really like that one.
You should have a conversation with the team and also have a conversation with an HR director or HR
department and get their help to create that roadmap Otherwise, those team members will be inspired
to create the roadmap out of your team, and you will be losing a lot of money to rehire and retrain
the people when the skill people leave.
Your team is such a big loss and somebody who spent there for one, two, three years time, the amount
of knowledge they walk away, it's it's a lot of loss.
So why you will be doing that one.
So create them a roadmap and let them the opportunity to grow to the next level.
Train them what they need to do.
Don't just give them a yearly KPIs and that's done.
KPI is great.
You do the KPI, you have to do the KPI.
They need to do that job too.
But also you tell them what they exactly need to get on top of the KPIs so they can be prepared to go
to the next level.
So that's very important.
Create a momentum with your team and help the team to achieve more, bigger goal, even in their personal
career, life and so on and career.
Tip number seven reward the team, the people who are doing to do a great job in your team.
The top performer.
Find a way to give them the reward.
Talk to the HR manager or bring some great rewards program and give it to them.
If there is company that have no budget, there was a company I worked before and as a director and
there was no budget for that one.
So I put my own money to reward my best performers because I knew that my best performers need to work
with me, and their contribution is so vital for my team.
So I put my own money to give them the reward.
I have seen I've tried to get a reward program to talk to HR.
I know what you are thinking over there.
I know I've been there.
I told you I put my own money in reward because I understand that the small amount of money I'm putting
on that one, even to give the reward, it is going to be a great value for my overall team because
they're going to achieve more, bigger goals as a team, and I want them to keep them motivated and
being superstar.
So keep achieving more great stuff in my team, so reward them.
Talk to HR director.
Talk to the CEO.
Bring it to annual annual budget.
Put some extra budget into it.
Have discuss with the CFO and get the budget approved.
And in case in the worst case, you don't have the budget, put your own own personal budget into it.
It doesn't have to be an iPhone.
It doesn't have to be a MacBook Pro.
It doesn't have to be a flight to somewhere else.
You could bring something really nice gift and reward them and give them a reward to inform the rest
of the people, the rest of the people in your team, and they will feel really motivated, and they
will be really inspired, and it will create an example for other people in the team to perform better
and bring more, better value in the team.
So here's the point.
These are the seven tips from my side.
You can immediately use it and go ahead and and inspire your team.
So here we go.
You want to motivate your team.
You got this video.
You got the seven tips.
Go ahead and execute right now and have a great successful team.
All the best.
See you soon.

--- Get Ready to Win the Future-Ready Leader Sprint Challenge ---

Leading others.
Start with what?
It starts with leading yourself.
And when you talk about leading yourself means you need to lead your focus, your energy, your time,
and your mental health.
And also to become smart.
All this thing, you got to build some specific habits.
And I've been coaching with you in different aspect with you in over the program so far.
But now I told you one thing, but now I want to tell you one thing.
The first level.
I want to inspire you, and then I want to educate you, and then I don't want to stop there like other
trainers and coaches.
I want to enable you.
And that's why I have created this challenge, because this challenge is going to enable you to actually
apply all those things inside of your habit cycle so you can become transformational thing happen to
you, and you level up your games or professional life and you become more better leader to make great
impact for your for your team, for yourself, your career, your company, your industry, and so on.
Now I want to tell you how it works.
Every day you will be finishing one day micro activity.
It will only take you 10 to 15 minutes period of time to get it done.
And then after each day you complete the challenge, you're going to make a super simple LinkedIn post
and I'm going to show you all the templates.
I'm going to tell you the step by step guide on how you can do this one.
So it's going to be super easy to do.
You and all these things are going to build you a lot of level of confidence in you because you see
you're transforming yourself.
You're getting enabled to getting all those 34.0 methodologies inside of you.
So now I want to tell you why this challenge works.
First, it's a fast and focus only is going to take you only 15 minutes to get it done.
Number two, the public visibility, everything you're going to do in this challenge is going to build
off your leadership brand, a personal brand.
And you know, in this present era, personal brand is a great advantage.
And this is something going to be really important and more important in this AI era.
So and this challenge will help you to get it started.
No pressure posting.
You're gonna have a full template, copy paste and do a micro editing and you will be able to prepare
your post.
I'm going to also give you the the template of the of the post.
I'm also going to give you the image template as well too.
So you're going to just download it, copy paste that one, edit your simple information inside the
post and it's ready to go.
And I'll show you everything step by step.
Professional credibility and recommendation is a game changer.
Do you know, according to the LinkedIn, this research is coming out.
If your profile has at least one recommendation, there is a 30% likely that any recruiter will going
to contact you for your next role or next role.
The same time is about, you know, hiring manager having doing an interview with you.
If they see at least one LinkedIn profile or recommendation letter you have in your LinkedIn, that
will give them almost 20% more confidence to actually make a positive decision for you.
So you're not going to miss that out.
So this challenge has the winners will receive personalized recommendation from me to your LinkedIn
profile so that you can show publicly to build a great credibility for yourself.
And you don't want to miss it out because every month, the top three challenge winner will receive
the recommendation from me, and you are going to be one of them because you are going to do a massive
impact with you.
So what are you waiting for?
Right.
Just wing get the recommendations.
So the last thing is about you want to build a community engagement.
So the LinkedIn profile you have is already like a LinkedIn community.
You have already.
So if you are don't have the access to your personal community, you post directly to your own LinkedIn
profile in home thread.
It's basically this way you can come in.
It's basically this is the way you do.
You just simply come to your home thread and then you just simply post that one and you can post that
on to.
And then when you finish the five day challenge, you just simply inbox me.
And if you haven't access to our community already, yeah, make the post in our community too.
And that's the way you will be also getting rewarded and also picked up as well too.
And anyway, the submission is always the same.
You will be sending the link to me and I'll be looking into it, and our team and myself will select
the top three winner every month, and you're going to be one of them.
You're not going to miss that out, right?
30% most likely getting knocked by recruiter because you have the recommendation 20% more confidence
from the hiring manager.
When you want to interview, you don't want to miss it out.
Even a 5% matters a lot when it comes to career development or getting a job, and you will always step
up from anyone else who are also most likely joining that interview or the hiring process.
So this is the challenge you choose to accept.
So now what are you waiting for?
Let's move to the day number one and I'll see you there right now.

--- Great Opportunity to Practice and Level Up Your Skillset ---

The way I was developing my career on my journey is all about for me, people development.
Just if I want to reflect myself.
When I was becoming a manager at the age of 23in a foreign country, when I was becoming a senior manager
at the age of 26, in a foreign country.
And then I became a director at the age of 29 years old.
And then at the same time, I was like, when I was building a nonprofit, and it's all about one thing.
It's for me, it's about people development.
So when I'm developing all those people is a one skill I had to continuously build is about how to train
and upskill people.
And that's why the level of training ability and coaching ability is always goes back to my leadership.
One of the key factors.
And if you look around, there's a large number of multinational companies always looking to build the
training and coaching culture inside that company, and that's one of the things they're doing by adding
the coaching ability to all the leaders, managers or Are executives into their team as well too.
And that inspired me to get started coaching my own team.
And then my colleagues, my friends, my networks invited me to to train and coach their team as well
too.
And that led me back then.
Since 2020, I've been training and coaching all the top 500 companies around the world, all the different
big brands coaching them, and that's why it's come to a situation right now that now we have we have
almost 200 to 300 coaches and trainers in our team, but we're always looking for more trainers and
coaches.
So if you are looking to develop your skill sets about coaching and mentoring, there is one of the
great way for you to join our team as a training and coaching student, and not only just about providing
training and coaches to the C-suite level executive.
We have different types of coaches who provide coaching to executive level.
We're providing coaching and mentoring for coaching and mentoring for director level, and also have
training and coaching for the C-suite level activity.
So if you want to get started, if started.
If you've never done coaching and training, probably executive level or even manager level will be
fine.
If you have done a lot of coaching, the higher level will be fine too.
So I'm open to have all different levels of coaching.
Plus I'm also building a community for our coaches too, where I'll be continuously sharing my experience.
Myself and also other trainers and coaches share their experience story as well, so we can learn from
each other and we can make an impact.
Because I found out this one, that one of the biggest ways I felt happy and rewarded.
When I can help something, I can communicate something.
I can provide values to another executive so they can get better.
And so they become successful.
So their success becomes always a great pleasure for me.
My journey at this point, and I believe that I've seen the same thing to a lot of other coaches as
well, because they have been contributing for other executives to become successful in their journey
as well.
So if you're looking to join my team, if you want to build your coaching and training ability, this
is a great opportunity for you to join my team.
As a trainer and coaches.
You could be an offline coach, you could be an online coach, you could be a community coach.
You just check the resource section.
There's a link up there to the description section of this coaching session.
And you can just follow it up.
It's going to take you just a few minutes to fill it up.
Maximum 4 minutes to 5 minutes and you can fill it up.
And then our team is going to take a look into it and we'll get back to you.
So like I said this one you have never had any coaching.
You are always an example.
If your IFC coaches you need more coaching hours need to be done.
Join our coaching team.
We can get you mentor and mentee to work with you.
Get your coaching hours done as well too.
And if you're not even done any kind of certification, you don't care.
You just want to be a better human.
You want to be a better coach, or you want to be better managers in your career.
This could be a great opportunity for you to join my team too.
So check the description section.
Find the resource section.
There's a link out there.
It's going to take you only five minutes to fill it out.
And then our team will get back to you.
Take a look in your details and get back to you.
So this is how I find out.
This on the coaching and mentoring is one of the best ways we can contribute back, and this is also
a great way to give back to the community, give back to the company, give back to the industry because
this industry Help me to become who I am today, because they gave me an opportunity to work on a major
project.
Billion dollar businesses help and trust my ability to make this transformation to the coaching and
mentoring is one of the greatest for me to give back to the industry, because the people who work in
this industry are actually building industry.
It's not about a name or logo, but it's actually the people who work inside these companies who are
building this industry.
And when I'm contributing and helping them more successful is the best way for me to give back.
So why not?
Why not become a coaching manager?
Why don't you build your coaching skill sets and be a better manager?
And also through that journey you give back to your company, give back to your industry and I'm looking
forward to see you soon.
So just check out the resource section of this coaching session.
There's a link up there.
Fill it out and I'm looking forward to having a conversation with you.

--- Illuminate Your Leadership: 7 Principles to Enhance Your Impact ---

But now the main thing is about how you can be a successful leader, which is this next mission you
are already embarking right now in your journey or your career, or you are already a manager for a
while, but you have seen that there is a ways of motivation.
Lack of motivation in your team is happening.
There are probably many problems.
Maybe one of the things about how you are treating your team member matters a lot.
Kingdom of motivation.
And also when you are a new manager, how you treat your team members and really work with them and
treat them.
Really define that how well strong you are going to be.
Winning the team culture and building the team, and which is one of the key fundamental thing on a
depend on you to become successful.
How much you will be in that role?
Do you want to become successful?
Right.
So here's the point.
In this video, I'm going to give you a total of seven tips.
Seven tips which can you can easily use in your from tomorrow right after this one with your every team
member's interaction with you.
And you will see if you just do it for two weeks, you will see a huge change in your team culture in
terms of our tweeting and the productivity of the team connections.
If we've done it once a long time ago, there's a different story.
But if the new members will just join a new company, this is the best time for you to treat this by
using the seven tips and become a better mentor.
You want that, right?
So what are you waiting for?
Number one listen.
It sounds very simple, right?
I'll listen to what you have to listen to.
Pass.
Your managers or employees will be damning on them.
But actually, that's what is one of the key reasons you are destroying your team ability when you are
a manager.
I know it's such a hard experience to actually listen to your key members of your staff or your influence,
or if you're an owner or CEO, it's so hard to listen.
But this is that hard thing you got to do because you need to listen to see what is actually happening.
First of all, when you listen to that is that first of they, you let them express themselves.
Secondly, when you listen, you have enough input to actually take the right decision as well too.
So listening is a win win between you and your staff, so try to put more practice.
Here's the way I'm going to give you an exercise.
That was one of the things you can do is about just thinking about last five minutes.
How much time do you spend on speaking one on one, but not in a group presentation?
One on how much time were you speaking?
How much were you listening?
If you're a leader and if your spectrum is more than 50% time you have been speaking, so that means
you are not listening enough.
You need to practice more and and should be speaking less than 50%, 30%, 20%, but don't go 5%.
That's the way to live.
And that's why you are not like an absolute over there.
So you need to have a good balance between 20 to 50%.
You need to play around based on the meeting.
Unless it's a presentation that's a different story.
You're talking a strategic teaching your everyone.
That's another story.
I'm talking about one on one interactions or group discussions.
And you can slice it down and you can see that if you're speaking more than 50% time, that means you're
not listening enough.
So number one kids listen more.
And if you do this one for a few weeks, you will see a big change in your team.
Number two reward.
So one of the key aspects you should be always looking into when you're working with your team.
Always think of different opportunity to reward your team member.
If you are just looking around, if you will.
Over the last few months you've been working, think about how many times you are taking orders.
Unless your story is your team was only falling apart without any production.
Anything to suggest about that?
That means you have a miserable team and you probably need to change your whole team, or you need to
leave the teams, that kind of situation.
But unless you should be at this one moment coming to every month where you should be rewarding something,
it doesn't have to be only money.
It could be trophies, it could be certificates, it could be recognitions.
So you have to think about rewarding your team members, because when you don't reward your team members,
they don't find the reason for why they have to be the best shot.
So you reward.
But you got to be very creative about giving rewards.
You cannot give the same reward all the time.
So think about different types of rewards, and that will really help you to see how to accept this
reward.
And every time you give the reward, you will find a new flavor into it and you will be excited about
it.
Let's go!
They are well appreciated too as well.
Number three give feedback.
So and when it comes to giving feedback not just giving feedback way like three months later when the
project is already failed and then giving feedback.
Give feedback on the way they want it to.
One week, two weeks.
Give them feedback on when you have a new team members.
This is something I found.
It really work.
When you have a new team members, you onboarding your team first 2 or 3 weeks, you give them continuous
feedback.
Be a little more, micromanage them because micromanage not to just tell them what to exactly do, but
actually get this expectation really clear and give them the all handrails ready so they can actually
get all in a good grip and they can take things forward.
So here's the point that you got to give feedback in a continuous basis.
And here's a point not just only give negative feedback.
Give positive feedback as well.
If you see there is nothing to give, positive feedback means you already hired the wrong people or
you already have a wrong team members.
You have to find another option, but you have to give a positive feedback.
I mean, if you have a proper team player, that person definitely will be doing something good, which
doesn't require a good feedback and you have to give it to them.
So just think about like you have a team of ten, think about how many times you give feedback for each
of them in one month of time, and each of them should at least give one feedback from you.
If you have a team of ten, if you don't have time to do it, or ten of them.
So that means you don't actually have enough time to manage ten people as a direct report.
So we have to break that down.
And I had a meeting manager.
And then you can give the feedback to mid manager.
So this is the point.
You need managers.
You have to give at least one feedback in one month.
But now here's the point.
If you just go through with last three months of time and you see that all that feedback were negative,
that means you are probably not saying everything about the positivity or the good work or the wrong
thing, that you got to be only one way.
It's your problem or their problem.
So be more empathetic and understand you.
It's very easy to say and it's your fault.
But sometimes you know what, as a leader, the problems come from you too.
So it's going to be very important to understand that what is exactly your problem is, and you can
identify and solve that one.
Number four.
Delegate.
When you are a manager, it's always like, oh, I'm going to micromanage everything.
I'm going to everything I want, every, every outcome.
No, you don't have to do that first 1 or 2 times.
You can see that one to make sure that the quality is good.
But then you you have to delegate to your team members and you start delegating.
Your team members that will create a trust team will see that you trust them and they're gonna you're
gonna they're gonna trust you back.
Trust is always a both way.
You don't trust your team.
You don't.
You cannot expect your team member to trust you.
So you need to trust your team.
And they will trust you back.
It's a two way way.
So a delegation is one of the great way to build the trust.
And and there's a lot of managers struggle a lot when it comes to delegation.
And they like to micromanage.
I have people like even 55 years old really experienced manager was telling you the staff that, oh,
any email you send it out, you got to come to me.
That's what the big problem like.
You don't have to see every emails getting out from the departments.
You can only look them in which it makes sense.
And you should be hiring someone who already understands, which makes sense.
Like, if you are a CEO and you are very close to the business development and all that business manager
sending out hundreds of emails, you don't need to be on all of them, but which one you need to be,
let's say, about sending out a proposal to a particular client.
Then they can see you.
So that that's something you should be discussing with them and get a proper contracting ready with
the teams, where you should get involved, where you should not, and that the delegation process needs
to happen as well too.
Because if you don't even learn how to delegate, it's also showing a big weakness in your leadership
as well.
Number five tell why you got to understand that everybody, people who work in your team, they are
not a robot.
So you can just write a comments like for example, in the mouse you press the mouse and it works,
right.
They are human beings.
They are not mouse in your team.
So they got to understand why they are exactly thing to do.
Because when you don't understand why, that's what created this dysfunctional level of the team, because
it creates the lack of motivation.
So that's the why you got to tell them again and again why you want them to do this one.
And here's the point.
I know I'm very busy, very tired.
There's a lot of things going to go.
Yes, exactly I know what does that mean.
But here's the point.
You are the manager.
You are the leader.
They have to pay the bill.
You cannot do this thing.
Perform.
It means you are not ready.
You need to train more to be a leader.
You can leave the leadership role and take other kind of role.
There's a lot of roles in different industries which is solo, like an architect or consultant, solo
consultant.
You can take this kind of role and do your excellent thing by yourself.
But here's the point when you take a manager role, you have to tell the kingdom of why and make them
buy into it.
And same when they are in all the same when they are bringing any particular idea solution, you ask
them why that and then you let them buy you into that one.
So it should be a two way buying and selling of idea to getting things done for work.
Number six learn to appreciate good work.
So when there is a good work, you should be giving a true appreciation.
Here's the point when it's time to giving appreciation, a lot of managers don't give a feedback.
Genuinely.
It's always good work.
Oh it's nice I mean look at that.
I mean, by hearing that voice, you can already imagine that the feedback is not a true feedback,
just a feedback and appreciation for work.
Don't be that person.
I mean, that's the way you actually, first of all, really disrespecting your own pleasure that your
team has done something amazing and you're saying you're faking appreciation or at the same time you're
creating a confusion that are you really happy or not?
Your team doesn't really know through your appreciation.
So appreciation is actually not a productive one, but actually counterproductive because you are actually
making your team confused.
So give appreciation with genuinely from heart.
You gotta give a genuinely from her appreciation.
When you give any appreciation, it should come from your heart.
If you think that does not deserve appreciation.
Don't do it.
Tell them where they need to improve so they can deserve your appreciation.
When you support, appreciate from genuinely from your heart.
Otherwise, it's going to be distracting you.
Number seven the support you have to let people go.
If sometime they you will see that some people are not really adding value, they are the ones who are
distracting other people.
They are the ones who are hanging the team behind.
They are the ones who are creating situation, which is actually creating problem for other people,
and let them not to focus on what exactly they need to do.
So for that situation, you need to let some people go.
1 or 2 people go back.
Why?
You have to be very prepared for that.
You need to be super convinced you cannot just do it in half an hour.
You need to understand that they should go, and if they go, what exactly value they go and when they
are actually going.
What is the impact on your team and how you can mitigate into it?
There is so many.
Manager firing is not a funny and interesting thing for them.
And let people go and think about they are that.
But no, that's not when you are hiring people.
It's a cost.
And when you're hiring some people, you're losing a lot of intellectual property and knowledge, expertise,
training a lot of things, and then you have to wait to bring other people in.
So this is the the worst part.
The thing is the one who is critic toxicity in the team rather than only just performance, the one
who is creating toxicity, that's the one I like the five best the performance we can manage, the person
we can train, the person we can show the person.
But the one who create toxicity, yes, you can leave them.
So here's the point.
You want to improve your teamwork, right?
And one of the reason and to improve your teamwork that you want to learn, you want to see and how
to practice the team to treat better.
And here's my strategies for you.

--- Lead Like a Pro: 7 Powerful Hacks for New Managers ---

And you want to build a new expertise in your existing area, maybe newer level, or you want to build
a completely new expertise from what you are doing right now.
Key things I do personally to build my different expertise in workforce transformation, HR, digital
transformation, different new stream of information technologies, and so on.
I'll be sharing with you.
So if you want to build a new expertise, this is the video for you to watch.
So let's get started.
Number one I realized this one when I want to build a new expertise in a new area, I have to be very
curious.
So when I was looking for like an example, a new expertise in a workforce transformation or an HR field.
I was very curious about it and I was been looking into it.
I was reading different kind of report about HR and I did not really thinking about I'm going to do
it like in a become an expert in one, two, three years of time.
I'm going to be an expert in over six years or even few years in time.
And I'm going to do that one one of the way.
It will make me keep going to this journey for that process of 6 to 3 years or even four years.
Period of time is about.
I would be very curious.
I'll be very curious.
I will start reading all the different reports and I will be also asking different questions, and I
will try to look for the answer from other reports and other experts, other different Sharings different
materials, and I will try to connect the dots.
So that's why my first thing is about being curious is the number one thing to get started, to build
a new expertise in a new field.
Number two, I will choose a new type of lifestyle when I wanted to build a new expertise.
So that's a lifestyle.
Not a lot.
So if you think about the course of Jeff Bezos series one, you can choose a life about comfort and
ease, or you can choose a life of service and adventure.
So for me, I realized this one, that this is such a powerful way to look at the life and I have.
If you ask me like ten times, I will be asking ten times.
I want to have a life with adventure and and service.
So as I wanted to be an expert in a new field.
My continuous am thinking about what service I can bring.
So that means when I'm thinking about what service I can bring means, what value can I add?
So now when I'm thinking about what value I want to add is about what problem I want to solve.
So now I'll be looking into all these key areas of this questions, these three things.
And I'll be staying curious, which is like my first mental model is to help me to push this journey
forward.
And now here I just wanna tell the world journey.
Right.
So I'm now thinking about journey.
So what I will do is about as I'm looking at my journey sometime, I was thinking about it's a journey
to adventure.
I'm figuring out what is unknown to me, so knowing an unknown and turning it to a known thing is an
exciting journey for me.
So that's the way I exactly.
I look into this process, because I know it's not going to be done in 3 to 6 months of time.
It will take me a few years period of time, even.
It take five years of time.
What kind of expertise?
I'm picking it up.
Number three is about being passionate and keep looking.
I know that I need to be patient because it's going to take a lot of process up and down.
I may need to go forward.
I need to come back.
I need to do a backtrack sometime.
I need to take a detour or sometime I can use the shortcut.
There's a few shortcuts I like to take to build a new expertise, which I will share with you later
on part.
So keep watching and you'll learn it.
So I need to be passionate.
I know that as I'm building the new expertise and new area, I need to be passionate because a lot of
things I will learn in this process, and probably to build this thing to to take to the next level,
I need to unlearn it.
So I have realized this one that learning is really hard and unlearning something even harder.
So when I'm building something, a new expertise in a new area or learning becomes like ten times more
harder.
And that's exactly why a lot of people find it so hard to build them to new expertise.
Like an example, when I was doing a digital transformation as my expertise and I was building out a
workforce transformation, there's a lot of things I have to unlearn, which was an excellent way to
do it.
In digital transformation.
But in HR it doesn't.
The right way is actually sometimes the wrong way.
Example.
So I had to unlearn it, or I have to segment it, and then I have to train my mind, my imagination.
Completely different way to build a new expertise in a new area as well too.
So that's the thing.
Being patient and constantly learning and more importantly, using the mental model that's learned to
learn to go to the next level is really crucial in this matter.
Number four time frame.
So normally I like to set up a goal.
When I'm building an expertise in a new new area, I know it may takes 6 to 3 years to a certain level.
Even like after doing something for even two years, I felt that I cannot add any significant value.
I will pivot or I will backtrack into it.
So normally I set up a goal in the beginning that, hey, I'm going to invest my two years to build
this new expertise, and after two years, if I don't have a significant amount of of value I can provide
to that industry, I will backtrack and look for something else.
So I am ready for a long run, but I'm also checking out my own status update and checking my milestone
to see this one.
Am I making progress?
Am I really learning?
Am I really capable to add value in this industry or not?
So normally in two years I do a litmus test about this one.
So normally I do it normally a year later and then two years later do I do a massive one.
And this could be a decision making.
I keep doing so like an example.
Two years later, after doing my test, I realized this one.
Yes, I can add value in this industry, so keep doing into it.
And if I do otherwise, like an example, I'm not really sure.
So if I'm not really sure, I may think about a few more months, maybe 2 to 3 months and I will ask
the question as well to.
But normally I give a chance to only one time for maybe this time it has to be yes or no.
So if it's a no, then I'll leave it to something else.
So that's the thing I do in a time frame to ensure that one I'm not overcommitting and not keep digging
the hole in the same place, but actually I'm making a progress and making the right decision.
Number five becoming a volunteer.
This is an incredible way and a step which really significantly.
I use and it really helped me to build expertise in a new field.
So when I'm building an expertise in a new field, I'm learning, processing a lot of new information,
trying to connect a lot of dots.
So what I will do in this field, after a few months of trying and learning new expertise, what I will
do, I will volunteer for another organization.
I will see that industry who has such kind of problem which I want to solve.
I will come proactively and I will tell them that, hey, I want to help you to solve this problem.
Let me just work on it and I will be a volunteer.
And if I do something wrong, you can call it off, I will, I will fix it.
Or if you say this one is absolutely not right, I'm doing.
I will stop and I'll walk away and do something else with another organization.
So so that makes the person really feel comfortable to work with me that, hey, actually he's he's
willing to contribute.
So I'm not there with and telling them that, hey, I'm doing something, so you need to pay me for
that.
So I'm kind of quite much out of that thing.
So the person who is listening to me is much easier to say, yes, yes, let's do it.
You want to because I'm coming on to add value for them and they are not putting anything out of it.
So now when I'm solving few cases like that, maybe 3 to 5 or even ten, I have a track record of solving
those problems.
So now those start to create a great mental model inside my mind to connect the dots.
And that's the first sign of an X bar right on that particular thing.
At the same time as I have to ten things about those 1010 projects I have done.
So ten projects become my my portfolio something it's become my my own own track record.
And so I can easily use this track record to firstly to make myself confident and also in the future
who will be working with me.
I can easily show it to them as and make them confident to work with me as well too.
So that's why starting with volunteer is an incredible way and I love doing starting this way too.
And that's one of my steps I always follow building an expertise in a new, new industry.
Number six show my work.
So in this phase, what I do is about I constantly show my work to other people.
So now what I'm showing to the other people.
There are a few things happened.
Some, some, some of the work.
People say, yeah, it's a good work, keep it up.
I this definitely give me a first layer of, of of inspiration that okay I'm making progress.
But then normally I ask them back which exactly the thing you make you feel that it was great.
Tell me that thing.
Because that exactly the dot is very important for me.
So that means I am getting better on that particular aspect.
So what I'm going to do is about I'm going to invest more time to make it even more outstanding, because
I know that the model saying this one is always easier to make your one strain to an excellent rather
than a weakness to an excellent one two.
So then I'll pick it up.
The second thing I want to keep showing this work is about I want to receive also the negative feedback
or critique as well too.
So I will receive some critique or negative feedback and that's absolutely fine.
Why?
Because by giving us feedback or criticize is giving me an input to show me where am I doing really
bad?
So rather than I'm paying someone else and an agency, an expert who's looking at my work and giving
me an advice and I'm paying them for that, and now there are all these people is helping me to just
simply improve, which is incredible.
Right?
So that's what I like to do is about I like to show my work constantly.
I give it for for free other people so they can easily try it out and they can give you positive feedback
and negative feedback.
But here's the point.
When I'm getting those negative feedback from critics, there are a few way I actually filter them out
as well too, because and I like to share with you.
Otherwise, if you show your work, you may feel really hurt as well too.
And I don't want it to happen.
And I want I don't want it to destroy your motivation to.
When somebody gives a negative feedback or criticize, you always ask who is the person?
Is the person truly care about you?
Is the person really care about me.
If I see this on answer is yes, I'm going to consider that one.
If the answer is maybe or no, I will definitely discard this out.
So this is my simple filter process.
Or processing the criticize or negative feedback about my about my work, which I'm constantly showing
as well to because more I'm showing the the more feedback I'm getting and also more confident I'm becoming
as well too.
And I'm getting better as well.
So that's why it's it's a very important step for me to build a new expertise and new industry.
Number seven shift my work.
So in this bag, what I really care about is about I like to shift my work as many times as possible.
I don't want to just shift it once in a month.
So like an example, if I just shift once in a month, I can get a feedback once in a month.
But if I can shift like four times in a month, that means every week one time.
So that means four x feedback.
So that means I improve from 1 to 4.
But now here's the point.
If I do two times per week.
So that means I have eight times I have shipped my work, so I got eight x feedback.
And that's an incredible way to.
So for me when I'm building expertise in a new area.
So I really care about how often I can ship my work out so people can give me feedback.
And really, I use those feedback because I need a lot of quantity of feedback to once in a month feedback,
maybe just positive or or not really positive.
And I probably filter them out as well too.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to focus a lot in shipping the work a lot, as much as I can,
and then I filter all this feedback and I use it to improve myself.
And that really helped me to process my improvement and development of building my new expertise in
a new industry.
Number eight I will be just simply kill my ego, because in this matter is so much important.
Because when I'm trying to become an expert on a new industry, I'm starting to build a little bit of
ego on that one too.
So what I really pay attention about, because when I learn something, when you start to see, oh,
I'm getting better into it, Then we think about we kind of better than other people to and that's kind
of oh, I'm really focusing my own style.
But and that's the moment is the wrong moment because that's the moment we really need to excel our
development and make it even better.
And that's why it's so much important to listen from other experts, so I can clearly understand what
is actually working for them, how it works on them.
So I can just simply use it and customize it in my way, and then process it in my way and ship it to
my, my audience.
But now, if I'm being very egocentric about it, I would not want to listen.
I wouldn't want to.
I want to understand what they're really doing, and that will make me slow down a lot more moving forward
too.
So that's why there is a common thing is about ignorance, depth.
So like an example, if I don't know something, how much is impacting me or how much value I am not
able to provide for just simply not knowing that I want to.
So I better go and pay off the debt and lighten it up and get the value return off me as well.
So I will be able to give value.
So this world will give me value back as well too.
So that's why I'm really careful about this ignorance debt.
And one of the ways to handle the ignorance is about listen to other experts seeing the success story,
what is really working, what you are working, and then put it all together and then process it in
my way.
So that's a really great shortcut.
Getting a mentor could be really helpful too.
So when I'm building a new expertise in a new industry, everything is unknown.
I'm trying to figure out everything myself.
I'm trying to read a lot of documents, but what I do most of the time is about I like to get a mentor.
So a mentor can clearly tell me what exactly the report I should read, how often I should read, where
I should look for new information, which are the other expert is kind of I should follow through because
in an industry there's lots and lots of expert as well to which which expert could be the most right
of way for me to follow through.
And in the beginning, it's very hard for me to to do that.
So if I have a coach and I have started to have a build relationship with the coaches, good understanding
between ourselves.
So then what happened?
This coach will start to send me.
Hey, you talk like that.
Expat bingo.
That's the point.
You probably talked to that expert.
That's the point.
That means those are the expert.
Have a similar kind of approach of me.
So I can just go and directly the expert and really deeply I study about them.
And I really consume all this knowledge and expertise they are sharing.
So that really helped me to equip my my expertise as well too.
And that's exactly why I do it in this over and over.
So this is having a coach is a really great shortcut and I like to follow.
So here's the point I totally share with you total ten things I do to build a new expertise and new
industry.

--- Leadership Branding on LinkedIn: Elevate Your Influence and Reach ---

Do you know how many percentage of recruiters use LinkedIn to find their candidate?
Come on, guess the number.
Where's the number?
It could be.
Are you guessing 30%?
Then you are guessing really low.
If you are guessing 60%, it's still.
You are guessing very low.
If you are guessing 90%, you are still guessing very low as well.
So what is the real number?
95%.
That means 95% recruiters using LinkedIn to find a candidate.
So now if you are not in LinkedIn and you are not building the personal brand, you are missing it big.
How big is it?
So let's do another comparison right now.
If somebody has a great personal brand, LinkedIn, how many times that person can get a job offer compared
to who does not have the personal brand in LinkedIn?
How many times?
Five times.
Ten times?
15 times?
Yes.
Let's say if you are guessing ten times, you're still guessing very long.
You guessed 20 times.
You're still guessing very low as well too.
You're guessing 30 times.
You're still getting very low levels too, as well.
So what is the number then?
The number is 40 times.
That means the candidate who has a personal brand in LinkedIn get a job for 40 times more than compared
to the candidate who does not have a personal brand in LinkedIn.
And here's the fun thing.
These are all the things that I'm sharing with you.
I do not just made it up.
So the 40 times factor, that insight coming from Forbes and LinkedIn business already reported that
one that 95% recruiters are finding candidates for for themselves over the LinkedIn platform.
So if you don't have a have a linear profile and if you're not building a profile, you're missing it
big.
How big you're missing right now.
How to build a LinkedIn personal brand.
It's not about posting the cats and dogs and personal things and working pictures.
It's about showing you how you're developing yourself.
But that's why this lecture is going to be really valuable for you.
This whole video, I'm going to prepare you for something which is going to help you, a really professional
brand for yourself, not just about posting some street photos or some working computer.
Everybody can do it.
But here's the thing the best way to see the personal brand or build a personal brand LinkedIn is about
you developing yourself.
You are building something on yourself.
That means you are adding new skill sets and you demonstrate those processes to your networks.
And this is the module I'm going to show you how you can do it and step by step right now, and this
is the lecture I'm giving you the strategy which will create the ripple effect for your personal brand
over LinkedIn.
You want that, right?
Of course you do.
So let me process you some few more bullets about this right now.
So what does it really mean?
It means that every time you're doing something for personal development or professional development,
you normally receive a milestone.
That means every time you finish a program or courses, you receive a certificate.
And that score is a unique point for you to demonstrate in the LinkedIn.
So now let me just process this one.
Just getting those each of the courses or certificates done and then publicly announce it in LinkedIn,
how it will impact your different factors in your career.
So I will be talking to you about the three different areas.
Number one, the career growth and promotions.
Number two, the job search opportunity.
Third thing is about building a great network effect, which actually building your great personal and
professional brand.
So now let's get started with getting development and promotions.
How does it really work when every time you finish your particular professional development course and
you go to the LinkedIn and you post there.
What happened?
That means your whole network knows that what you are preparing for something better.
So there is an insight coming out from McKinsey.
It's a no brainer.
It's an 87% of the professionals who actually actively do the professional development themselves and
announce it to their networks.
They promote it for their own career in the next in present company.
And this is what is linking, learning, finding out.
Let's say this one is this 37% opportunity is there for every professionals who are learning actively
themselves in announcing their professional development and certificate to the network.
So it goes back to one thing.
You got to announce.
You got to learn first, and then you got to announce it to your network in LinkedIn.
The certificates and the announcement of learning even you can announce it multiple times when you were
learning the courses.
Do that give you this exposure that you are getting ready to getting promoted, to give you the confidence
and give you the confidence to your team and also to your supervisor as well too, because they say
you are getting ready to do something better for themselves, for their team and for the company.
All right.
Now let's talk about the jobs that are opportunities.
How do they really impact when you actually finish a course or program and announce it into the LinkedIn
platform?
There's a specific insight that the recruiter has not one time two times 2.5 x.
Most likely contact a candidate who has professional certifications listed in the LinkedIn profile.
And that's exactly why in this module, having a separate coaching session, I will show you how you
can actually list your AWS certification.
You are doing it for any platform with me or anywhere else.
so you can actually build up your profile.
And if you just go back and check my own LinkedIn profile, and you can see this one very early part
of my own career, I was taking all the different kind of professional development courses, and those
have been all listed down years back, like almost ten years back.
And that's really helped me, to fuel me to become where am I today and give me the confidence to all
the hiring managers to even recruit and offer me all these different major roles in different billion
dollar business companies.
All right.
The third factor is about building your own network.
So look, people always get attracted what kind of people they really like.
So like an example, the person who really improving their personal development and improving their
professional skill sets, they're going to attract other people who also building the personal brand
and also building the professional skillset too.
So now what do you do if you are doing all these different learning programs and you finally post them
into the LinkedIn?
What happens?
You can interact with other people who are also learning and developing themselves and adding their
skillset as well too, and probably also announcing the certificate as well.
So what are you going to do?
You're going to create a network around you who are in the game of personal development, and you're
going to see each other post, and you're going to inspire each other and lead to what there is an insight
about 40% position getting filled by through the internal networks.
So would it lead back to you?
So that means if you're building a network where people are learning together and growing together.
So whenever there is an opportunity in their own team, they're going to hire between themselves because
they know this one.
These guys learning, they have the skillset.
He finished the program.
I want to hire him because I already know him about it, and I know that he cares about him, and he
has all the skillsets he's acquiring and accumulating for months, years, and that's what he's going
to open.
A lot of unknown doors or unseen doors of opportunities for you.
So that's exactly why you can use LinkedIn and your professional development Courses certificate to
build up your profile and build a great personal brand.
And this is the thing, it's a ripple effect.
So there's a clear insight, this one, that if you just finish regularly different professional development
courses and regularly announce those certificates to your LinkedIn platform, you are going to get not
just 100%, not even 200%, even 300% compared to anyone else who are not just even posting them just
in LinkedIn.
So that's why you're going to post your your old certificates into LinkedIn platforms.
You're going to do as many as you can, all the online programs or offline programs, and then you bring
them to LinkedIn and announce it to your network.
And that's where you can have 300 X your network speed compared to anyone else who are not doing it.
And you going to do it.
And that's why you're here.
And I'm going to show you how to do it exactly in a proper manner in the remaining coaching session
of this module.
So stay with me and I'm going to show you step by step how to do this one, how to do.
And here's the thing.
I've seen a lot of people posting into it.
Like almost 90, 95% of people are not posting into it.
And the people who are really posting into it, almost all of them are doing it wrong.
And how why it is wrong, how it is wrong and how to do it correctly.
I'm going to give you everything in the in the upcoming coaching session on this module.
So now you got this one.
How is it important for you, for your own professional success and how are going to build you up already?
So now let's move to the next coaching session.
And now get into the action so you can get the certificates.
And you can post it in your profile properly and build your profile properly to all these things I will
show you moving forward.
And that's where I will see you in the next coaching session.

--- Leading Myself Challenge Day 1: Self-Leadership Scorecard & Focus Goal ---

Welcome to the day one of leading myself as a leader challenge.
And before we get started talking about the day one, I want to share with you two good things.
The first, the whole challenge.
You can get it done in just maximum 15 minutes of time.
And here's the best part.
In this session I'm going to step by step.
I'm going to show you how we're going to win this challenge of day one.
And you can just walk through with me and it will be done.
The second thing is about the good news is if you don't day one, day two, day three, day four, and
day five, all that five days of challenge.
And if you follow through, you can be getting one of the the winner of the challenge of the month.
And if you become one of the winner of the challenge of the month, you literally will get a direct
recommendation letter from me in your LinkedIn.
And this is how it's going to exactly going to look.
So if you go to LinkedIn you will see there's a lot of recommendation letter.
And those recommendation letter will be showing to your own profile Publicly.
So anybody of your network recruiter boss, they will be seeing the recommendation letter and that will
add a significantly great reputation for yourself.
You don't want to miss it out, right?
Of course you don't want to miss it out.
So how do we get started off the day?
One of the challenge.
So now this is how you do that.
You can see this one in your course section.
You have the day one of the leadership challenge.
So what do you do.
You just go to the resource section and you click the day one challenge resource.
You click that out.
It will be opening up immediately in the next step.
And when you have that one it can clearly see this one day one we're going to focus about self leadership
scorecard and focus goal.
And basically we want to spend almost maximum ten minutes on a micro actions.
You will be reading yourself in these three different key areas.
Focus on productivity, energy and wellbeing, learning and growth.
And the last one is pick one area focus and improving.
And then you'll be posting this one in LinkedIn.
And here's the best part you don't need to produce anything on LinkedIn.
It's the template is already ready there.
You can just simply copy paste that one and it will be done.
And when you're making the post into the community LinkedIn.
So basically here's the community link.
And you want to add an image into it.
And the image template is also already included there too.
So now I'm going to complete the challenge with you right now.
So you can just follow through with me.
And you can pause the video on the way.
And you can complete the challenge with me right now, because that's one of the best ways you could
do it right now.
And this is how I do so.
All right.
So this is the LinkedIn.
This is the post template right now.
Right.
So what I'm going to do I'm going to just copy it.
And then I'm going to go to straight Grammarly.
Because Grammarly is a great tool for me because I can fix and fix the grammar, because I don't want
to make it spend a lot of time fixing anything.
So what I'm going to do, I'm going to take a new one.
If you don't know Grammarly, it's a free tool.
You can you don't need to get a paid one.
Just get a free one and you can get it fixed.
So I'm right around pasting this one.
So now I have a D1 score right now, right?
I take a space productivity and focus my score on this one.
I will think I have four stars, so I just copy one more star and make it five star energy and well-being.
I think I am on this one.
I am doing pretty good right now.
Five star I will give it to them.
Learning and growth I think I'm in three star.
I think I should be learning more faster and this week I'm focusing about what area I'm focusing right
now.
This area I want to focus about what is the focus area.
My focus area is about improving my focus management.
I figured out that one I need to improve my focus knowledge.
I'm getting distracted by a lot of things, a lot of priority coming on from different places, and
I cannot really focus myself.
So this is one of the things I want to focus.
I want to focusing on improving my focus management skill set during the day time at office, at work.
And that's basically my thing.
My my whole template is completed already, so I have read it myself already.
I get my focus ready to now I need to make a post.
Right?
So how do I get the pulse right?
So before I get the pulse right now, you can just simply I can go back to the one thing and you can
see this one.
Download the image template.
So I'm going to come by click this one.
And it can bring me to Canva file.
And I can image the template.
So here's the image.
Because when I get the image it's really get me stand out my pulse and I can my pulse get looks better.
That's what I want.
So this is the day one.
So basically I'm going to come to the share.
I'm going to download this one and take the PNG.
I don't need all of it.
So I'm going to just take the page one which is basically the day one.
Right.
So like that one and I'm download that one too.
So now my challenge thing has already been downloaded.
So now I need to go and post to the community.
Where is that.
So now we're coming back.
So now so so this has already been done.
So check it out.
So the next thing is about I need to do the make the post to the community.
So I'm going to click that one.
I'm going to go to the community right now.
So now this is the way the community is already open.
So I'm going to go back to the Grammarly.
I'm going to copy this whole post, which I made on, and I'm going to go back to the community.
So first I'm going to browse and I'm going to select the image.
That's the image which I downloaded right now.
And.
Then I'm simply paste that post.
And that's basically it.
My post is ready.
All I need to do is just press simply post.
Done.
So now here's my post is ready.
Um, my post is ready already and it's all already going good.
It's looking great.
Congratulations!
I have done the John Deere one challenge already for myself.
Now it's time for you to just get completed and I cannot wait to see your day.
One challenge is done.
I'm telling you right now, you can just do it right now.
Don't do it for later.
You have seen the lecture means now get the day one challenge done right now.
You literally have seen how I've done it.
So now you can just take another five minutes.
Just get it done right now.
And I just cannot wait to see you.
The biggest winner of this monthly challenge.
And I will be so delighted to recommend you in LinkedIn and contribute in your professional career success
moving forward.
And with that, let's wrap this up and I will see you in the next challenge.

--- Leading Myself Challenge Day 2 : Micro Productivity Power Move ---

Welcome to the day two of Leading Myself Challenge.
And in this session, I'm going to show you step by step how you can win this challenge right now.
And all it takes is going to take only 10 to 15 minutes.
And here's the big advantage.
You can just walk it through with me right now.
And the challenge day two will be completed.
And with that one you'll be moving forward one step closer to be nominated to become the top challenge
winner of the month.
And then you can get a personal recommendation letter, something like this in your own LinkedIn profile,
which will be publicly visible to everyone so that everyone will be seeing how much you are putting
through to develop yourself.
And that will give you a great credibility of your personal brand and professional brand to you.
Don't want to miss it out, right?
So now what are you waiting for?
We're going to move Geometry Challenge number day two and get a win right.
So how do we get started?
So all it matters is that you can see the resource section right next to your lecture.
Go to the day two of the resource section.
You click the day Tool resource section.
Intersection, then immediately will open you up the day two of the challenge.
You can see this one in the day two.
We're going to focus about micro productivity power moves.
We're going to talk about micro productivity.
You have run through that thing from the how the micro factory manage so well.
In the previous lesson in the lecture course session with me.
And I have trained you about this one too.
Now it's time to use that knowledge to win this championship.
And I'm going to show you how you can win today.
So here we go.
So there are two things we're going to do is pick up one small leadership related task.
You have been avoiding sending an email.
Could be or it could be something like starting a document.
Or it could be organizing your notes and just took 15 minutes to just simply get it done.
So and and this is the post you need to make on right now.
And it's the template is already here, as usual given to you.
So I'm going to copy the template right now.
And then I'm going to go to Grammarly.
You can do it in email email as well too.
And you can write down in any place or in your word documents.
It's up to you.
I like drama because it's easy for me to get started and I'm going to write it down.
I finally tackled, so what task did I really tackle?
Right?
It's about reviewing the feedback of the the coach.
That's the tackle I want to do, right.
So what I'm going to do right now, I'm going to pause the video right now because I'm going to go back
next 15 minutes.
I want to get it done and I'm going to get back to you.
So and this is the time you right now literally do what I just showed you to copy this one, put it
in your in your Grammarly or word file, whatever you want to do, and lock down your thing.
And you also complete that one and you get back to me.
What is the final task?
Because I'm going to go back.
I'm going to get the reviewing, the feedback of the coach.
I want to do it right now.
I'm going to get back to you.
So you do the same.
Copy this one.
Put it in a word file.
complete.
Identify what's the thing you want to get it done in the next 15 minutes, and then you get back to
me and resume this video right now.
You got this right.
So what are you waiting for?
Let's get started right now.
I'll be right back.
All right.
I have done it already.
So now I'm back already.
So you're back means you have also get it done too.
And I cannot wait.
What is the.
What are the things you have tackled in your post?
So the next step is about simply going into it.
So this has already been done right?
This oh no, we have not downloaded the image yet to.
So now we need to download the image.
So I'm going to go and click that Canva file.
It's opening up the image file.
And now what we're going to do this is the day one which you have or we have already completed.
So this is the day two micro Productivity PowerPoint.
So I'm going to select this one.
Download it and I'm going to select the number two because I don't want all of them.
Right now I will be downloading another one tomorrow.
So I'm going to download the data right now.
So now it's been already been downloaded.
So now I'm going to get back to Grammarly.
So now okay what's next.
So this is done.
Now make the post in the community.
Okay.
So now community post I'm going to go to the community click this one.
So community is opening right now in LinkedIn.
So now I need to make the post.
So what I'm going to do I'm going to copy this one.
I'm going to copy the text first.
I'm going to get back to it.
And I'm going to come back here paste this one.
So now it's already done there.
So now I'm going to add the image.
There is the image.
Here you go.
What's next.
It's already all set.
And I'm just checking it out.
And then press post.
And it's been posted and we're done.
Day two challenge is completed.
I am the winner of the day two challenge.
Are you?
Have you hit the post yet?
Not if not yet, pause the video right now, get it done and get back to me.
Because with this one, you are moving to the one step forward of the winner of the data challenge.
And you'll be ready to day three challenge winner.
And I just cannot wait to get you ready to day to number three challenge winner as well too.
So with this one I'm the winner of the day two.
Are you ready.
Right.
You are already winner two right.
If you are, let's move to day three challenge number.
And I cannot wait to see you to show you how you can win the day three challenge as well to.

--- Leading Myself Challenge Day 3: Energy Awareness Check-In ---

All right.
You win the day one.
You win the day two.
And now it's time to win the day three challenge of the leading myself first challenge game.
So here we go.
We are already in day three.
And now I'm going to show you how you can win step by step to win.
Day three challenge.
You are ready.
Of course you are.
Yeah I am excited to to get the challenge winner as well to day three.
And I'm going to show you how you can win.
And I'm going to do the challenge with you right now so you can just follow through like I explained
to you in the day one and day two.
And like I said, it's on with this one.
When you complete it in day three, you will be moving to one step closer to get the personalized,
personalized this recommendation to your linear profile, which is going to boost your LinkedIn profile
and get you a better personal and professional brand to move forward to get an attractive, better job
opportunities as well.
Two.
You want that, right?
Of course you do.
Because I want to get you ready to be one of the top three winner of this monthly challenge.
So you can get ready as well too.
So now now let's jump into the challenge and we can get started.
So now how do we win this.
How do you win this one?
I already made the formula.
All you need to do because the get three you go to the resource section and you open the day three resource
challenges.
So now we've already seen this one.
So this is the day we're going to focus on energy and just check in.
You have already learned the energy in the previous coaching session I have already trained you.
I have already given you all my formula is now you just use this thing to learn and win this challenge
right now because you have already learned.
Right now it's time to just win it.
And there we go.
What are we going to do?
We're going to do a micro action in ten minutes.
So we're going to check in your energy level in the three points today we're going to check in in the
morning.
We're going to do in the midday and we're doing in the evening.
Let's do it yesterday.
I think it's gonna be better.
So I just slightly because yesterday.
We know it already.
Because we can just complete it right now.
Right.
So let's not do it today.
Let's do it yesterday because we remember how we were.
And to do this one we can simply this one we have a linear template already here.
So what I'm going to do is just simply copy it.
Copy this one I like commonly.
But you can do it in any document management thing you can.
Do you want to.
So I like to mix spaces.
So I just created the spaces.
Let me just give those spaces here as well.
So you don't have to do it after that one.
You can just simply use it like from the template as well.
So now what are we going to do.
We're going to we're going to fix this one.
So here is my energy snapshot of yesterday.
So it's going to be always yesterday.
It is planned to do it today.
But I prefer that yesterday would be better.
So now it's going to be always yesterday.
So now we go back to the that in the morning.
So maximum is a five star right.
So now my morning was yesterday was four star and five star.
What really boosted me I had it I had it appreciate it.
Session with my direct report appreciation session.
So we shared a lot of great things.
And that really brings us more closer actually in the middle.
What actually drained me on this one, right?
What really drained me, uh, what really drained me is about I had to solve a complex problem about
a about a business system.
Yes, it took me a lot of time, and I was under-resourced, and that's why I.
It drained a lot of my energy.
And the evening.
What really is about is about I had it, I had I went to my favorite.
You see this on the beautiful, right?
It's already helping me to correct this in front of a restaurant.
And enjoy a great steak.
I love steak, enjoyed a great barbecue steak I love steak.
I think this one you can see that's the beautiful of Grammarly.
Any any typo.
I can immediately get it fixed.
Um, from yesterday.
Right.
So.
Okay.
Done.
So I'm gonna get back to it.
What I need to do.
I need to download the image right now.
So I'm going to click this one.
I'm going to get the image.
It's a day three I need to download the day three image.
So I'm going to click through.
That's the day three.
This is the day three.
So I'm going to go here I'm going to download I'm going to select this by default always three.
Select it and select the day three.
Page three.
And I'm going to press download Now.
All right, let's download it already.
So now what I'm going to do, what is the next thing is going to make the post in the community.
Right click this one.
I'm going to go to community.
So my community post is just simply opening right now.
So now I need to make the post.
So to make the post I need to copy this first I'm going to select all and copy it.
Right now I simply get back to here.
And now I'm going to select the image three.
Next paste it.
And now you can see my whole post is ready and all I need to do is the post.
And with this one my post is ready and I have completed the day three challenge already.
Yay!
I'm the winner already of this challenge!
Have you done it yet?
Not yet.
Pause the video right now.
Yes, pause the video right now and get the day three challenge Win and get back to me.
All right.
Did you pause?
Yes.
Pause it right now.
Yes.
You did this thing.
You are already win it, right?
You're back.
Means you have done it already.
Day three channel thumbs up.
You have done a great work of the day three challenge.
With this one, you just move one step closer to the becoming the monthly winner of the challenge of
this in the program, and I cannot wait to see you win the day for as well too.
And with this one, let's wrap this up and I'll see you in the day four challenge.

--- Leading Myself Challenge Day 4: My Personal Reset Ritual ---

Well done.
You win the first three days of the challenge because you are going to be a champion, right?
And with this one, welcome to the day four of the challenge.
And in this session I'm going to show you step by step how you can win the challenge.
Because I'm going to win this thing for myself with you two as well.
So you can also just follow through with me and you can get the winner of the challenge with that one.
You're going to move forward one more step closer to be winner to the top three of the leading myself
of the challenge, so you can get a personalized LinkedIn recommendation letter.
Like this I had to work a lot, create a lot of impacts into different companies.
So all these different leaders gave me all those recommendation letters.
But you can get one of them to to boost your personal brand and professional brand in LinkedIn platform
by getting a personalized recommendation letter from me to your LinkedIn, which will be publicly available
for your profile all the time so you can attract better career and job opportunities as well.
You want that, right?
Of course you do.
So now let's get started and win this D-4 for challenge right now.
So when you are looking for, you can go straight to the resource section here.
And the day of the challenge when you click into the resource section, I'm going to open the day of
the challenge.
And you can see the instruction coming in right now.
So therefore we're going to focus about this challenge is about my personal reset ritual.
Because that is such a great impact for ourselves because we need to improve our personal skill sets,
but we also need to improve our mental health and strength as well too, because these two things work
hand in hand.
Soft skill matters a lot, but also our mental health.
How strength strong it is.
Also help is almost work like a framework right where it holds all the skill set into it too.
So we're going to fix it.
And we have learned a lot of things, right.
You have already learned because I coached you already.
So now it's time to use them to win this challenge.
Therefore right now.
So what it's saying create your five minute reset ritual, a quick action to refresh your focus during
the day that all you need to do.
And then it could be many examples like it could be a breathing example, it could be a quick walk or
it could be a music break, or it could be journaling.
And basically you only need to do you got to test today.
All right.
So we're going to do it right now.
So how am I going to do this one.
Say we already have a post template.
We're going to copy this one.
And we're going to move to Grammarly.
Because you know I like Grammarly.
But you can use any tone any tools you want.
They're not sponsoring this thing to I like to make the space.
So describe it briefly.
So what I want to do is about I want to I want to focus about this thing.
I want to focus about the journaling thing.
And I call it appreciation journaling.
That means that the three things I'm really grateful about yesterday.
All right.
So I'm going to describe my my three things.
These are the three things.
Um, so let's say I'm doing I'm doing.
E to journaling And these are the three things I am grateful about yesterday.
So first of all, let's say number one, let's make some space.
Number one is about I had a very productive day and I and I hit all the day goals.
I received three, uh, a thank you letter from different mentees.
Um, I received two, uh, offer, uh, to work with, uh, two different companies for their transformation
projects.
Uh, different companies, actually.
Yeah.
So now my gratitude journaling from yesterday is completed.
These are the three things I'm grateful about yesterday and and I'd like to do this one.
This is the thing we're going to do it for.
I received.
Yeah.
And this is why I like Grammarly.
Because I just really don't need to pay attention about the text spelling and just take care of it,
highlight everything and I can get it fixed.
And, uh, and then I can just focus on the idea.
That's what I want to spend my brain.
So now what?
Am I already ready right now?
My post.
And that's how if you have not done it yet, let's pause the video right now.
Complete your your ritual and get back to me in few minutes.
All right.
Let's pause right now.
Okay, so you have got your ritual done right now.
So now we're gonna post it.
So how do you do this one?
The first of all you can see to do we need to download the image.
So I'm going to get into dev for image templates.
And I'm finding it right now here.
And this is my day for this is my day.
And I'm going to go select share.
I'm going to download I'm going to select uh here's the community link.
I'm already in the community right now.
And and now all I need to do I need to go back and copy the whole post, come back to the community,
click the media because I want to add the image, but therefore I'm going to paste this one.
This is have a little space issue.
Uh, I'm going to fix this right now.
Uh, because without the space it will not look nice.
I can I can do the hyphen, um, and write it down.
Yep.
So now it's all done.
And my dear, for post is ready and I'm going to hit the post and I have done it.
There we go.
Yeah, my dear, four challenges completed successfully for leading myself.
So now let's pause the video right now and go back and post your your post and win the challenge and
get back to me.
All right, let's pause the video right now and get back to me.
All right.
Congratulations.
You have done it.
You are here.
Means the day for challenge is done.
And here we go.
The big thumbs up.
And with this effort, you are moving closer to the day five challenge.
And that is the final day of the challenge.
And that day will get.
You can get to be one of the winner of the top three best challenge winners.
So what are you waiting for?
Let's move to the challenge number five.
And let's I'm going to help you to win the challenge to.

--- Leading Myself Challenge Day 5: Self-Leadership Playbook & Public Commitment ---

You crossed it?
Yes you did the first full day.
You completely crossed it.
Now it's time for the final blow.
The wind.
The day five of the challenge.
And in this session, I'm going to show you step by step, so you can do the final blow of the challenge.
And you can move forward and can become the one of the top three winner of this challenge, leading
myself so you can get a personalized LinkedIn recommendation letter from me to your own LinkedIn profile.
Like this.
And all this recommendation letter took me a lot of effort to build on, and a lot of clients want to
work with me, because all this great recommendation that I have ever received, all the great recommendations
I have, because these are a great credibility for me to to show this one how I contributed in different
companies and make impact for those companies and take the different people to the next level of their
career success or life success, and you will have one of them.
And that will add a significantly great personal brand and personal brand for you as well too.
So now what are you waiting for?
Let's get started.
To win the fight for the championship.
So first we're going to go head down directly to the resource section because I have prepared everything
for you to win this.
So now you're going to click the day of the challenge.
It will open it up for you the resource section.
And you can see it's a self-leadership playbook and public commitments.
That's the thing.
So what is the thing we want to do is we want to reflect on the on the four days, write down three
insight about you to lead yourself and one one leader leadership habit you will commit for the next
30 days three insights about you lead yourself and what is the three things you're going to commit.
All right.
And here's the template I have it already ready for you.
So what I need to do I'm just going to copy this template right now.
And now I am going to pass it here.
So now my goodness.
Ready.
So what are the three things.
So this challenge gave me the great insight into the thing.
How do I lead myself.
The top three takeaways right.
The first insight is about gratitude.
Gives me more energy.
That's the first insight.
The second insight is about the more productive I am, the more happy I am.
I'm going to fix this one.
The last one is about what's the last one I had, right?
It's about.
What I see.
This one is about.
Sharing is happiness.
Sharing my progress gives me more confidence.
So these are the three things like all the different sharing.
I have done all three by taking part in the challenge, it gave me more confidence to stand up.
And that confidence is really important for me as a professional or as an expert to move forward.
And so do you as well.
And now my 30 days commitment.
I'm ready to keep growing.
Right.
What are the three things I want to do?
So I realize this one is about who is joining me.
Right?
I'm ready to read, to grow.
I will be focusing more about execution with my team while I'm running and operational five minutes.
So I found out this is one of the things I was doing.
Mistake is about I was talking often.
I worked in an organization as a founder or as a board member.
I worked a lot with the strategic meeting, and I often, um, forget about sometime in the operational
meeting and I forgot to switch myself to an operational meeting.
I really need to focus about execution, but I'm most of the time I'm joining about strategic meeting,
and that's why I kind of more talk about strategy thing.
But now sometime I've been joining in a operational type meeting.
That means now I really need to focus on execution thing when I'm in operation type meeting too.
And that's one of the thing I want to focus about.
And now I'm going to make the post and complete the challenge of the thing.
So right now what the matter is about.
Now you pause this video right now and get your post ready.
So just pause the video and get your post ready right now.
All right, you're back means your post is ready.
You got your three insights and you get your, uh, the things you are going to get growing for the
next 30 days.
Well done.
So now what is next?
The next is about I need to get an image template right now.
So I'm going to go in and click that one and get my image templates.
So basically I need to do five.
So I select the div five.
And I'm going to download this one and click this one.
That's the current one will also get the problem solved to 75.
So now it's going to download my my images.
Now I have copied this one.
So what is the next thing I need to go to the leadership community.
So I go to community right now and I'm going to make the post right now.
So now I'm going to go to the media and and I'm going to go.
And paste this or there is a spacing issue.
So I'm going to make some space thing up to make it look nicer and easy for, for me to follow through.
Uh uh oh.
Actually, um, I better I put it here because there is a space in the camper already.
I'm going to add this here point zero now.
My whole challenge is ready.
What I'm going to do I'm going to hit the post.
And the post is out there.
I just had to take a look.
Done.
I have done the five day challenge and I am the winning.
Have you post yet?
Not yet.
Right.
So pause the video right now.
Pause the video right now and make your post and get back to me right now.
All right.
You have done all this five day challenge.
So congratulations.
You have done it and you are ready to be a champion.
So now it's time for you to submit your request to become one of the winner of the five day challenge.
Right?
Of this leading myself.
So how do you really do that to do this one?
One of the fundamental thing is about you go to the LinkedIn and you send me all the link posts.
So first of all I'm gonna, I'm gonna I'm gonna list it down all my different links.
How you can do this one.
Right.
Here are my five day challenge challenge winning post.
So I'm going to go and I'm going to find all my challenge into the community.
So I'm going to go back to the day one.
Here's the day one.
So this is the way you can copy the link of the post.
You can copy this thing, copy the link post and then I'm come by here, I'm going to test it.
And then I'm going to go to the day two.
And because I'm going to submit the request right.
So and you're going to submit the request back to me so I can take a look into your post and I can actually
send to send to the judge panel to see who is the winner of the of the of the of this month challenge.
So now I'm going to do three.
So now you're going to go in and copy it.
And I'm going to go in and just putting all the link saved here.
Now I need to go back to the community I'm finding my dev for.
And here is my default link to copy.
And now I need the diff file right.
So I'm going to go up my final day.
And here is my final day.
Bingo.
So now all I need to do you need to just go and send this thing to to me.
Basically I have some typo.
This is why I love Grammarly.
Everything get fixed.
So I just copy this one and I'm going to send it to.
So how do you can do that.
Right.
How you can send this link to me.
So basically you will just simply inbox me in LinkedIn and in one message and that is enough.
All right.
How do you do that?
So so now I'm going to show you how to do that.
So let's say for example, this is you and all you need to do is about you.
If you already find me in a home, that's great.
Otherwise just search me a face and that is me here you just only matter to click into it.
You probably already find me in the community anyway, so you just then.
Then you can just go to the click messages and it will pop up all these things.
Right.
And then all you need to do here are my five days, five day, five day challenge winning post.
You just copy all of this thing, and then you go back to LinkedIn and you just send it all to me.
Done with this one.
You have successfully send it to your all the posts and I will be love to see your posts.
I will interact with you too.
And then And I will also promote you to probably make some comments about your post as well.
And then end of the month, our team will go through and find out who is the best top three and you
most likely going to be one of them.
And you will receive a personalized LinkedIn recommendation letter from me to your LinkedIn so you can
publicly show it to you to boost your personal brand and so on.
And you are ready, right?
Because you are ready to winner.
Because you have done all this five day challenges.
And I cannot wait to be see you in one of the top three winner.
So I can recommend you and you can contribute in your successful journey moving forward.

--- Leading with Purpose: Developing a Strategic Plan and Vision ---

So what?
I'm going to give it to you in this mastermind.
I'm going to give you a very valuable template.
And this one template can completely keep you aligned, and you can create you a lot of amazing, effective
story, which you can utilize to move up in your career.
And you can show and demonstrate and prove your leadership capability in the organization of any size
as well too.
So you can take this mastermind in two different ways.
One so in the template you can see there are total five columns we're going to work on.
The number one is about companies.
Goal number two is the departmental goals.
Number three is about team focus.
Number four is about your progress.
And number five is your action.
So those are the five columns.
You can solve the whole thing into it.
And on top of it you can see this is an overall progress and the quarter of the company.
So now let's start to fill it up.
First we have not got a template yet.
So let's pause the video and go to the resource section and download this template.
And then let's get started.
Okay.
So we have the template already.
So now the first thing we're going to do is we're going to look into overall progress.
So now there are different ways you could put down your overall progress.
So normally I could set this one on track off track behind the track or doing really well.
So let's say on track okay.
And then the next thing is are you going to fill it up the quarter.
Which quarter we're in.
So let's say for example this is Q4 2020 for example.
So now the first thing we're going to do we're going to fill up our company's objective means company's
goal.
So it's there is some kind of document around if you don't know where it is, talk to the HR or your
line manager and you ask them, what is the company's goal for this year?
Let's find this document and then you fill it up.
If you don't know that those are the sources asking line manager or an HR department, or looking at
the intranet of the website of the company, there should be a document already there, won't find it.
download it and let's fill it up first, because you need to know, because if you don't know the rest
of the exercise, the mastermind will not be helping you at all.
So that's why the first thing is about getting the document.
They have already done the work.
They have already packaged it.
The SEO already worked on it with the stakeholder and communicate to the C-suite levels already.
And now your goal is to get a copy of that one to which is almost always available in your company.
So let's pause the video, find the document, and let's fill up the first column, the company goals.
So now you have got the company goal document.
And let's say you have fill up the column.
Number one the company's goal is done.
So now the next column you're going to work on is about departmental goals.
So now every company's goal is there is somehow related to your departmental goal.
Goal.
As an example you are an IT department.
So your department is aligned to that company's goal.
If you work on a marketing team, your department goal will be aligned to that company's goal as well.
If you are in sales team or business development team, your department is going to have the goals,
which is also aligned to the company's goal too.
So now if you find out there is no other goals aligned to you because you are in a department, let's
say you are not aligned to anything, well, it can happen.
There are some of the goals, maybe a company there too, and that may be not aligned to, let's say
example.
You belong to accounting and there's a company has a specific sales goal.
Maybe your accounting goal will not be aligned but could be.
But let's say for example, your department did not really build for it.
So you can skip that part.
But every goals of the company's goal, you fill it up column number one.
Then you're going to fill it up.
What is related to your departmental goals?
They are like an example.
You are belong to a bigger department.
It's a sales department or a belong to marketing department or belong to IT department or belong to
HR department.
You fill it up.
So let's pause the video.
And now if if in case if you don't know your department goal to talk to your peers, talk to your your
leader and ask for what is our departmental goals for this year?
You get the document, you listen to it, and then you fill it up in this column.
So let's pause the video and let's fill it up.
So now you have got the column number two.
Also you can fill it up to like an example.
Now the column number three is about your team focus like an example.
You belong to the HR department and you belong to let's say example recruitment function.
So like an example you're I'm going to help you to fill up one example for you to how it can break it
down.
An example your company has a goal is about generate 50 million USD revenue.
Right?
And you belong to HR department.
So your HR department think about onboard.
Onboard and form a top sales team.
One of the one of the objectives you have.
So you are belong to the recruitment department is about is this one.
Your is about recruit top five sales in our industry.
Sales experts in our industry.
Such an example.
This is your team goal because you belong to recruitment department.
So now if you're not recruitment department, if your payroll department will be different, if you
belong to the marketing department, it will be different to you.
So I'm filling it up.
So now every of your departmental goals will be tied to your team.
Like an example your whole department from HR.
And then there are many teams inside the same department like a recruitment department, payroll department,
the department for HR, VP and so on.
If you are an IT, you belong to a project management, application development, security last year.
So you belong to which team under your department and then what goal you have in your team aligned to
your departmental goal.
You fill it up.
So now let's pause the video and let's fill it up.
So now let's say you have filled up your team progress.
And then the fourth column you're going to work with is about your own personal progress.
So if you are let's say example, we're filling it up all this template I'm a recruitment executive.
So I have recruited my progress.
I have recruited.
Cheap top sales so far, and my progress means it's about two out of five.
So basically I got two out of five.
So this is a success.
That means I have already contributed 40% of my team achievements so far.
Let's say for example, I'm not the only one person recruitment.
I have two other people, but I'm alone single handedly contributed 40% of my team goals.
That is one of the story.
Definitely you can talk to your different departmental performance review and talk to their colleagues.
Talk to your leaders as well too.
So now that aligned to that kind of progress is aligned to your action.
Such an example one of the action is about document it.
Share it to performance review.
This is another thing.
The third thing is about um mention what should be better in the team in the in the in the meeting.
So this is the way you will define a specific action almost every couple of weeks.
And this template directly helping you to measuring your own performance and then also influence other
team members to drive the performance as well too.
And what is the influences for that is called leadership.
And that's how you're boosting your leadership ability, even not being a leader as well too, you turn
into more like a project manager means basically your team leader or team manager or task manager,
and that will create you to a path to to become a team leader, because that's what you probably want
to be if you're not a team leader yet and you look into it and you, you reposition yourself and you
communicate your right, execute your right actions into it too.
So like this, this document, you can definitely duplicate this slide multiple of them because maybe
your company has so many goals, maybe five, ten, 20 goals you have.
So you could make multiple slide off into it.
And then you save this file on the desktop of your computer.
And every two weeks you open this document and you review it, and then you redesign your action.
And then in next week you execute those actions into it.
You update your progress and you design your right action into it.
And if you just do it for over a period of your time, for six months to one year, you will see yourself
in a completely different position because how you value your time, your work, and how your team member
and your company and how your leader recognize your work and you are going ahead into it.
And that's the way you actually know how to manage the performance, because now all the leaders are
being one of the fundamental factor for them in the company is about managing and driving performance.
You want to be a team leader, and when you become a team leader, then you can move up to a departmental
leader as well too.
So this is how you move up in your career by using this mastermind tool.
So like I said this one, you save this template in your desktop and do one thing, go to your calendar,
and then you block your one hour session.
And every two weeks probably Friday afternoon or Friday morning every two weeks.
And Friday afternoon, let's say example 2 p.m. to 3:00 PM to review this one and realign your action
to and block it in your calendar.
And that time you don't accept another meeting and you just do this review thing and keep doing it for
next two months.
And I tell you that you will start to see magic.
And if you do it for a year, you will see some amazing results in you and an amazing reputation you
will gain for your team.
So here you go.
You got this mastermind.
So now let's start.
So now let's do these two things.
Block your calendar, fill it up, save in your desktop, and you know what you need to do in next two
weeks to follow through and move forward, even if you finish the courses.
But you this is the template.
You keep using it every two weeks and build up your great momentum to become a leadership 4.0.
So all the best.
So let's wrap this session and I will see you in the next lesson.

--- Level Up Your Project Management Ability and Become a Chartered Project Manager ---

When I was 22, I became the project manager, and then at 25, I become the senior project manager
for a global brand named RMIT University.
Most people take years, even decades to come to this level.
But I found a way to accelerate my journey.
And today, through this video, I'm going to share that with you.
If you are an executive and want to break into a project management role, land your next big role,
or sharpen your skill to become a highly effective project manager, then you are in the right place.
When I started my career, I saw two types of people.
The first type of people.
What type of people who follow the traditional career path.
The fourth level is slow, progressive approach into the career, but typically they wait for the next
promotion and pretty much waiting in the long line of getting promoted to the next step in the career.
The other group is an accelerated version of everything.
They mastered the skill, the prepare for the next role.
They set the right goals, do the all strategic actions and climb through the ladder really fast.
I wanted to be always in the group number two and then fast forward.
Today I make it happen for myself.
So then I asked back, what is this thing?
Actually help me to be always in the group number two.
And through this video, I'm going to share with you all the key aspects.
So you can grab this one and you will be able to take the right actions to build this project management
skill set for yourself.
Project management is one of the highest demanded skill in the world.
It was, it is and it will be even in the era of all transformation and AI.
And here's the point here.
ERA of transformation AI require even more project manager.
Why?
That is the thing.
Because a project manager is the person who lead the team.
Take the team to always to the next steps, and finally enable the team to deliver an outcome to the
company.
And through that aspect, always make an impact to the business results or business progress.
But here's a question what separates between a highly effective project manager and just an average
one?
And through my own career progress, I have discovered the answer of this question.
Most executives who actually transit to a project management role, they often basically face these
two types of roadblocks into their career.
The first one, they don't know where to start the project management.
They may have leadership experience, but project management requires specific skills and execution
approach.
Number two, the struggle to demonstrate their value.
Because without the right skill set and without the right mindset, they often struggle to get the right
projects or they've often been overlooked for any important projects.
And finally, they often been getting forgotten for any kind of promotions or raise or bonus from the
company.
Here is the hard truth.
This all coming from Project Management Institute, or PMI, which is kind of like the core of project
management for all over the world.
Let me share them with you.
40 to 50% executives struggle to translate into a project manager role, even keeps traveling up to
5 to 10 years to that journey.
Yeah, 5 to 10 years.
That's pretty long.
Only 20 to 30% of the project manager turns it into a senior project manager role.
Even 5 to 10 years later in the career, and less than 15% of the senior project manager who actually
level up to a project director level.
I was very clear.
I don't want to wait for 15 years to get to the next level.
So I was looking for what is the thing I could do, which can help me to get to the next level and way
faster than all this traditional path.
So when I was thinking all this thing, this is the three light bulb moment really helped me out on
this aspect.
The first one a project manager earned for X, compared to an executive who is in a non manager level
and a senior project manager can earn 2 to 5 X compared to project manager.
And for me, I realized this on oh, these two numbers are amazing because these two numbers can really
help me to get to where I want to go financially in my career moving forward, and that gives me the
motivation to actually find out and rethink and overthink and plan and strategize my career move so
I can move to the next level compared to any traditional approach moving forward.
While at the same time, I clearly understand one more thing it's about if you could master your skill.
So I asked the big question to myself.
The question was how can I translate faster or moving faster in my journey of project management?
And here's the thing.
After thinking, analyzing, and strategizing, I found the answer.
And this is what I found out the answer.
To be a great project manager, I don't need to just manage the task.
So what I need really need to manage.
I need to manage a result and impact.
What is the project create in the company?
Most people think about project management is all about task management, Gantt chart, flow chart,
project meetings and so on.
But actually what makes actually different into the organization is through project management.
And I realize this one is all about I took all this data, insights and experience and drive one thing,
and it's called motivation.
And I use that motivation to build up a set of principal specific knowledge and a set of mental model
that build me a great project that surely into a great project manager and moreover fast track my career
growth moving forward.
Right now we are living in an era of transformation and digitization AI.
So what?
It means tons of progress need to be made and how to make the progress is through effective project
management.
And that's why the companies are desperate to have great project managers inside their team.
So in this situation, the company just don't need project manager or people who just follow the process.
So what actually the company need then?
So companies need people who can drive execution, lead people and ultimately deliver results on time.
This course give you exactly tactics, proven systems, a proven process, insight and mental models
to transition fast in a project manager role.
Perform at the highest level and stand out in your industry as a great project manager.
I always enjoy learning when I have those three key factor when I'm learning something.
The first one I need to feel good when I'm learning about it.
Number two, I need to have a step by step guideline in my learning so I can easily follow through.
And number three, I want to build a specific sense of mental learning, which I can use it to make
my execution faster and smarter.
And that's why in this program, I package all these three factors for you so you can learn this project
management skill set and master it and said tons of time compared to any other sources.
You try to learn from the same skill or project management since 2020.
I shared this process approach mental models or project management to the all the global brand companies
like NC Mark, AIA, Hitachi, KW, Siemens, Brooks and many more.
This program is designed to build and then multiply the project management skill, help you to transition
faster and unlock different high paying project management opportunities.
So what are you waiting for?
Join me in this project management program.
Accelerate your career and become an effective project manager.
Let's start right now.

--- Level Up Your Trainer Ability and Become a Certified Trainer ---

Let me ask you something.
Why some manager lead average team when the other managers create high performance team.
Unallocated talent and accelerated state to the top.
Why?
Some managers and leaders always been called by the HR department or the other manager of the company
and request them to provide training for their team.
Ever a different topic.
And finally, other company and even the other different external community invite them to come over
and provide training for their employees and even their managers and leaders.
Here is the truth.
It's not about the luck or it's not about the pure experience.
It's the ability to coach, train and elevate the people around them.
And that one skill changed my life.
My name is John Masood Pervez.
I become a manager at the age of 23, in a foreign country.
And then I become a senior manager at the age of 26.
And then I become a director or head of the department at the age of 29, or the leading 160 people
national wide.
And at the same time, I founded a nonprofit where I was leading around 300 plus members nationwide.
No, I didn't have a massive connection because I was already in a foreign country.
I don't have any insider information or connections as well too.
But I had one thing that accelerated my career and journey the ability to coach my team to perform like
a champion, to build trust, drive results, and unlock the next level.
That thing made me valuable.
That's what got me promoted and fast.
Most managers think their job is to assign tasks and monitor the progress.
Wrong.
Your main job.
The real job is to develop your team members.
Because when your team member grows, you raise with them.
That's why the world's the greatest.
Managers are also very powerful.
Facilitator, trainer or coach?
They don't just manage, they ignite the potentials.
And that's exactly what this course will enable you to do.
Since 2019, I have been trained.
Managers, leaders from different multinational companies and local companies across the globe.
Different industries, different cultures.
Different functions.
But always the same result.
My methods help managers coach their teams to exceed targets, build high trust culture, or even launch
their own training careers.
I have interviewed thousands of professionals and built their performance management system and facilitated
strategy sessions for different departments, which completely change the game in terms of result making.
For those departments.
So now I have packed all of those method approaches put together into this train, this train program
for you.
Through this program, you will learn exactly how to coach, train, facilitate top 1% of the leader.
That means you will boost your team's performance.
You will gain respect and influence as a leader.
You will expand your professional network through development and you will open doors to a passion driving
career in training and coaching.
Whether you want to lead better or start your journey as a trainer, this course will give you the system,
skills and confidence to do it at the highest level.
Here is what is waiting for you inside this program.
My proven coaching frameworks used by global companies.
Real life examples and practice tasks to sharpen your facilitation power.
Techniques to deal with difficult learners, low engagement and resistant team members.
And most importantly, a certificate from Academy to launch your credibility as a professional trainer.
This isn't a surface level course.
This is a complete transformation tool for professionals who is ready to step up, live smarter, and
coach with confidence.
One of my learners is a manager from Vietnam told me this John.
I used to struggle to get my team to spark up in meetings.
But after applying your first session technique not only but the speak up, they started challenging
ideas, sharing feedbacks and taking ownership.
This is not just about soft skills.
This is a career breakthrough weapon.
So here is the question will you keep managing the old way?
Assigning tasks, helping people grow, or you will step into the next version of yourself.
A leader who empowers other comments, respect and leave a legacy.
This is your moment and this is what changed everything.
So what are you waiting for?
Enroll the program right now.
Join the ranks of transformational leader who just don't assign tasks and lead people, but they elevate
and create breakthrough results out of the team and take the company to the next level.
I will see you inside.
And let's train the next generation leaders and trainers together.

--- Mastering Notes: A Simple Strategy and Free Tool for Enhanced Learning ---

So today in this video, I'm going to show you how you can use an app called KIPP, which is always
there sitting with you.
And it's absolutely for free.
And I'm going to also going to explain to you how this is more useful than Evernote and how it's more
usable than other taking apps, and also how you can even use this app, KIPP, to use the advanced
and paid features of notion as well too.
So what are you waiting for?
Let's learn this one and you can take your note and build your second brain forward.
Let's get started.
Let's talk about the pricing.
So we all know that Evernote is paid apps.
It's not really free.
The second thing notion is great.
I love notions too.
But the problem with the notion is about when you work for yourself and just only work on with your
you.
It's all great, it's all free.
But as soon you wanted to have a team and you want to share and you want to collaborate with other people,
that's how you need to upgrade.
And that's the way the paid features come in.
And here's the beauty.
Both of the things I'm going to tell you right now with Google keep you can actually do it for free.
You can collaborate with other people and you never need to think about upgrading itself as well too,
because there's a lot of space already in place.
So in this video, I'm going to show you now, step by step, how you can make your second brain in
Google.
So first thing first introduction.
So what kind of platform is available this Google Keep.
You can use it in your web and also in mobile platform too.
So the way to access this one you can just go in top right corner, scroll it down in the apps and you
can see the app keep is already there.
You're clicking on all you need to do to go like an example.
It has a keep, has a mobile app for Android and apps too.
For Android you can easily find it out.
Keep Google Play Store and all you need to do is just click this one, it will go wrong and then you
install that onto.
So that's why you can have easily Google keep with your with all the time.
So you will be able to take notes.
When you are in a desktop, you want it in mobile app.
You can also take notes too.
So in terms of user friendliness, I think that I felt the keep is a really good and very easy to use
as well to even compare to notions, because it's very open and a lot of customization there and takes
a lot of time to make the customizations happen as well too.
So now I'm going to show you my Google Keep second brand.
How do I manage?
You can see this one right now.
You're already looking into my Google Keep second brain how I manage this one.
So now let's dive into my second brain how it's look like in Google Keep.
So that's why you can see this one.
Right now I'm using this Google Keep as a second brain.
I have all the digital notes.
What are the different points I have learned?
I put it all together.
So now I'm going to show you step by step how you can create it.
So how to set it up right.
Very simple.
You don't need to set up anything.
All you need to do is click on the top and you put it on your notes.
And that's basically it.
So now let's say you have just read a book like an example.
You just read a book seven Habits of Highly Effective People.
Right?
So just put it on seven habits I should Build for myself.
And now you write it down proactive.
Let's say proactive win win relationship.
Win win relationship.
So that's why you can put on all those notes as well too.
So when you're putting all those notes now, it's gone right now right.
So how do you can find it.
One of the way you can just come by and search is to just seven habits.
And you can see that not coming to the play as well too.
But there are a few things you could do actually, you could pin it out.
And another thing is about you could actually come by and create an add a level as well to let's say
this is about productivity, right?
So choose productivity.
And now it will be always available under productivity two as well.
So now this is a very simple way.
You can always create new notes and put it on there.
And it's synced with your web browser and also with your mobile phone as well too.
So it's always with you.
So now you have already created a new notes right now how to search.
It's like an example.
You can just type as well seven habits and all the seven habits thing you have.
So there's a video I previously read all these different habits I have.
I have wrote it down as well too.
and also the book poster as well.
I also put it on previously and it's there as well.
Now here's a few pointers about besides searching.
This one you could do is about.
You could also search here in the level as well to let's say you want to search productivity.
And now you can see all the productivity notes I have already in my second brain.
So I can just quickly read through and can use it in my daily activities as well.
And let's say another thing you could do is about let's say you want to learn about sales, right?
So let's just search sales and then all the sales related knowledge we have ever read through and all
the tips you got, you have all searches as well too.
So that's a very easy way I can search all the sticky notes.
Now in this example how can you really collaborate.
So one of the thing you can actually click buy and you can just type and more.
Another thing is about you can actually make a checklist as well too.
Like in example, let's get this done and then like an example checking email or replying to John.
Then build a meeting unit.
So that's the way you can actually like an example having a summary of the yesterday meeting.
So like an example you can make your daily goals inside the keep as well too.
And you can keep storing like an example.
All you need to do is just put a new label.
You can say daily and like an example, let's get this done and you can put a particular date like an
example 28 of September 22nd.
So now you have your notes, uh, completely stored here, and you're saving it as well too.
So I can I'm going to search it out 28 and it's already appearing very easily.
So now there are few things you could do.
You could actually put your checklist at the top of your thing.
You can select this pin.
And then now it will be always in the top of your key brain as well.
Then you can easily access this one too and you can make it on the second day.
You can actually easily come by and you can actually copy to Google Docs.
So you can actually build this all checkpoints to Google Docs, and you can actually share with someone
to tell them to get it done as well too.
And now you can do more things.
You can do some coloring option as opposed to you can come by and actually you could actually add more
color like you can.
Example you can choose different background.
You can even choose a different.
Kind of images as well to you can choose different colors as well to.
And you can say so now let's say about I want to show you right now about task management.
Let's an example how you can actually assign your Google Keep task to other team members, which is
actually an advanced feature.
A paid feature of notion.
How can I share a particular nodes, let's say example you're making let's make it a task.
Let's say example task for MC today.
Example you are a manager.
You are assigned to a team.
Let's say example.
You write 20 on September and let's make it a checklist for easy for month.
So I choose a checklist.
Now let's say I want to follow up.
Here's the beautiful part.
You can actually select collaborator.
And as soon you set a collaborator you can actually type a particular person and you can save this one.
Then that person will be also receiving seeing this ticket to their keep, and they will be updating
you on this one.
Now here's a bit of a part you can actually add on and you can share with that.
And now let's say for example let's cancel it.
And now you say Isabel, you can actually put a particle level example team by delegation.
Delegate a task like an example.
You can always write it down.
All this delegate a task here.
You can create a checkbox level here.
And so you can always choose all the tasks you have delegated like an example.
Now delegate it to like an example.
If you have a team of five you could actually subgroup to five people.
But the best way to do it, you can put it on one level like that, and you can easily able to track
it down as well too.
And now you tack it down.
So now you can see the top of that one.
And as soon as you can see this one different time, my get things done and you will see the real time,
you just get it done and it will be updated automatically to your dashboard as well too.
So this is all the painting.
I have pinned a lot of stuff, but under the pin I have all the normal task is bottom as well too.
So that's the way you could ease it on.
Like an example, when all the task is done, it's not really important to you anymore.
So you just unpin it and it's gone.
So like an example, if you have a team or a directory for five people, you can create those five different
boxes and then assign to each of them and tell them this is your next three days goal, or five days
goal or one week goal or today's goal.
And that's the way you can get amazing amount of things done.
And all I'm saying, this one is this task management in Kiev is amazing workflow.
And that's the way you could do it.
And a lot of things done with your team.
Because if you talk about that one minute redirection to your team, these kinds of goal setting is
really, really powerful and can get you a lot of things.
And again, I'm telling you right now, the whole kit thing is absolutely for free.
You don't need to pay anything because it takes us one notch, only really so small that it doesn't
really take a lot of time about the spacing.
So in your in your standard Gmail account, I'll be sharing with you that.
Let's go.
And I'm using a Gmail account, and normally in a standard Gmail account come with a five gigabytes.
And if you don't use it for other purposes, like an example, storing a lot of drive file and video,
the whole five gigabyte you can use just to do the note storage.
And like an example, you could use it in another email for just emailing purpose.
And you can have in one email like this.
The email I only use for key purpose, and for my note taking and assigning with team members and get
a lot of things done.
And that's how you can very easily having a second brain to store all your tasks, all your progress,
all your knowledge on your notes, and also the task management of your team and time allocation as
well too.
And all is for free.

--- Mastering the DFC Framework: Delegation, Feedback, and Coaching for Team Success ---

In this video, I'm going to give you the three fundamental things and with some associated tips on
top of it, which you can use right after using this video.
So which can make you on the right track to become a successful manager.
You want that, right?
Well, I have made actually another video last year about four for the tips for the new managers.
But here in this video it's like a next version of that one where there's a lot of other tips I'm going
to share with you, which you can use right now in your role.
And you can be very successful.
So number one thing is that as you become a new manager, your very first mission is about get the trust
of your team.
So how you can get the trust of your team.
Your team should know that you are there to help them.
Your presence should solve any particular problem of their team and everybody know what exactly they
need to do.
So there are three things you have to do, right?
Just only three things on these tips because there is a detailed video I made another one with seven
other tips, but you can follow that one.
And you can use these three tips as well to together in your new management role.
And you can crush it.
So let's start it right.
Number one one minute goal setting.
So one of the biggest problems that each of the staff is suffering in your team is about they don't
really know what exactly they need to do or what is exactly their goal then to get an idea but don't
exactly don't know in detail in terms of goal setting.
So in this process, you will be setting out in a one minute goal setting.
All right.
So one of the government goal setting exactly.
Could be do you could do allocate your task.
You could use your system.
That's fine.
One of the day like very first Monday is a great day.
Just go to the staff desk and you tell them what is your key focus of this year.
They will just tell you right.
And that's like a very macro level question.
And then you can ask what are the key focus for you?
What are the key goals you are trying to achieve this week.
And they will tell you one, two three, four, five.
Right.
And then you ask the second question, what are key fundamental goals to achieve?
We're going to do like an 80% effect your missions right now of this week.
And then they will tell you and then you will just tell them right down, please me a plan how you will
achieve those those key goals which you're going to cover 80% of your impact of this week.
Write down an email and send it to me.
I'll have a look and give you an advice and give you a feedback.
So that will really help you to understand what exactly the team member really doing in your team and
in your manager, you know, what is that key goals into it.
And you can look at their goals and you can actually give them a feedback.
So you and your staff know exactly the same metrics what they need to do.
Exactly.
You know, you know exactly the point they're going to if they're going wrong.
You know.
Exactly.
And you can give feedback immediately.
All right.
So that is the tip number one.
So tip number two one minute praising.
So like one of the things you can go around in your team is about you can actually see that what exactly
things they are doing really well.
When you are new manager you need to be focused about giving positive feedback.
Because when you start to give a negative feedback very early stage, so much dangerous for you because
many of them cannot really accept you yet, right?
They don't see that you are there to help them.
You see them as a threat, right?
You don't want to position that one.
So one of the things you could do, you can tell your staff to do a particular thing like an example
they're doing in a particular project.
Or let's say they started to open a new software, the the learning new software.
You can just go to the desk, hey, show me how to use the software I want to learn.
And basically you look into that and they will start to deliver.
Probably they will get a little bit nervous.
You will start to work on that one.
And as soon as you start to work on that one, you say, hey, that is a good thing you have done.
Hey, you know how to how to how to find that thing.
You give them a small feedback.
So when you give them a small feedback in a positive way, the positive feedback together to them that
will bring them nervousness down and bring confidence up.
And that's exactly you need from your team member who has the right confidence.
So then they will start to do the things and start to get motivated and start to figure it out, to
find out how do they manage themselves.
Because when you are a new manager, one of the things you need to do, you are going to manage them.
You want to inspire them, you want to lead them.
But I also want you to want to focus about how they can manage their very micro and small thing as well
too.
So this is going to be the tip two, which is going to focus.
But I'm going to tell you the tip number three.
But I'm also going to give you after that one the key mistakes most of the manager right now too as
well.
So continue listening to number three.
And then the key mistakes, which is going to be your caviar to when you are going to be new manager
already.
We're going to avoid that.
So let's start at the next one first.
Number three one minute redirect.
So this is your key tool.
When a situation when your article a team member not performing well there will be situation.
They will make mistakes.
There will be situation.
They will not be motivated.
There will be situation.
They will get lazy and make mistakes too.
And that's the moment you need to step up.
You need to ask about, hey, what do you have done right now that's created that impact?
What you have done, the mistake that created that mistake is that amount of loss and that created our
company that amount of issues right now.
So with such kind of problem, I am not really feeling happy.
The way is overall my whole team going to look like.
All right.
So first of all you show them the how the situation into it.
And then you tell them how it's going to impact your whole team performance.
And then you will tell them main thing in the directive.
You will tell them that what exactly you're going to do different to improve this one.
You got lazy and you want to lose your focus in that created that impact.
What is exactly you are.
And then you tell the main thing, which is the status.
We know that you are better than that.
We I know that you can do that job much better way.
So now how you can do it better?
Please give me a plan and that goal one minute redirect.
And that will really show the person what exactly they need to fix about.
And they will be using their critical thinking to come up with the right plan and discuss with you,
rather than you try to come in and lost in their problem because as they are doing the work so they
know much more than about you.
But however, Here's the point.
I'm going to give you the four key mistakes most of the managers on the do when it comes to the three
minute redirects.
Let me get started.
Number one, fail to understand what is the wrong.
So when you were even manager, you cannot completely forget about the topic.
You need to understand what exactly the problem is there.
And as a manager, you used to be a subject matter expert, right?
And that brings you a new manager.
And as you are a new manager, you probably know most of it as well too.
So your mission would be to find out as fast as possible what is exactly the wrong.
So do not even go for redirect if you figure out that there is a mistake happening.
So find out exactly what is the problem and then you start your redirect.
Number two fail to give feedback on time.
You really need to give the feedback on time.
Otherwise it will be a big problem.
It can be a completely.
You can destroy your part of the team.
So I will tell you the worst manager or director I was reporting to in my entire life there is a so-called
American guy.
He's even been American.
So you even work for other consulting company?
He's like all the semi, all the quarter.
He gave amazing feedback to his staff and the end of the end of the quarter.
He was giving a terrible feedback about his staff, about me.
So my question is about why did you give the feedback the whole the six months and now you are completely
giving it to all the six months?
He turned into all the good job you never say anything problem, and now you own the performance time,
review time.
You can all the open the negative feedback.
That is not the way of doing this.
One two you need to give the feedback on time.
If you're giving positive feedback in the first two three weeks, that's great.
But then you have to bring up the negative feedback event or improvement feedback on time.
You cannot keep them in the last moment.
So and that is what that is the no.
I am telling you that with that director I suffered a lot, my team staff suffered a lot and just because
he is incapable, I mean to to give feedback and that really make him to be incapable to be a leadership
role like director.
So you always need to be actively remember that you need to give feedback and you need to find the right
word, positive manner, or even negative feedback or improvement feedback to give it to your teammates
on time.
Number three is a key mistake of the manager.
Does most of the feedback become a personal attack?
They take the things too personal.
Don't take it personal.
Don't come up with your point of angry or or loss.
It just happens.
Everybody make mistakes.
You made mistakes in your life.
Maybe you make two lists.
That's why you became a manager.
Your staff made mistakes.
And one of the thing is you need to focus about every mistake.
You need to come up with a professional manner, and you have to give them the feedback professionally.
And if you don't be, and one of the to give the professional to be the very first thing you need to
do, you cannot take things personally.
It need to be with that personally, without anger, without any any emotions, but being professional,
being clear, being precise to give the candidate to your teammates.
And you can actually ask them what is your thoughts about it?
What do you do differently in that situation?
So you come up with feedback, which is somebody made a mistake.
You don't get personal.
You tell clearly what it is and you tell me, what do you do in that differently that shows that you
are actually so much understanding the problem.
And then they will start to talk, and then you need to listen to what they are talking.
All right.
So this is like tip number four.
The tip number four I will tell you is this one one of the key mistakes most of the young manager does
is they they don't document the mistake.
They seem to document every other mistakes your team member doing.
Document it not to hold them accountable all over the year, but document them as a lesson learned.
So the next time when there is, you can actively can announce it without mentioning who made that mistake,
that hey, there was a mistake last two weeks ago or two months ago.
That is the mistake and that was the solution and that was the impact.
Please avoid that.
Just be aware so you can use those those mistakes as your resource to to educate your teammates and
actively avoid such kind of problem.
And that is the tip number four.
So here we go.
I like it told you that you just become a young manager and now you want to be successful.
And now you use these three tools and avoid those four caveat mistakes you could do.
And if you do this one, you'll be a great manager moving forward as well too.
And you know what?
I want to give a big clap to you.
And seeing you becoming a better manager and become successful in the role.
So you already got my thumbs up because you become the new manager.
Now it's time to be a successful manager and you become that role.
You took that role.
You got the role means you have the capability.
Trust it.

--- Maximize Impact: Transforming Meetings into Productivity Powerhouses ---

You are professional or you are an entrepreneur.
You have been doing a lot of meetings in your life and in your work life, and that is.
But one of the crucial things about meeting is, is one of the biggest important tool for you to getting
things done.
So in this video today, I'm going to show you how you can use a meeting, a great tool to get a great
meeting done at your work.
So not only want to, I'm going to give you a total of ten tips and in this video, so you can use these
ten tips to build a great meetings for your teams to get things done moving forward.
And and not only that, each of those tips which I'm going to give it to you, is not written from somewhere
else.
I really practice it after in my in my professional life, in different career, in different jobs,
because I have run thousands of meetings in my, in my groups and also in my CIO career.
So put it blend it all together.
I'm going to give it to you today and you will be using able to use it, any of the tips all of them
to to in the next meeting.
You want that right.
So let's get started.
Number one kick off the meeting properly.
You really need to prepare that.
What are the first few lines you were going to talk about your meeting?
So a lot of leaders like come to the meeting and like, oh, yes.
Uh, hey, how are you?
Um, icebreaker.
You want to do an icebreaker?
So be ready for that one.
If you want to do a great icebreaker, prepare a great icebreaker and prepare something activities to
get it going.
But hey, however, prepare a great kickoff meeting.
Start with a great preparation before the meeting.
It's not about only yourself, but also sending the right invitations to the right invitees and to make
sure that also reminding them and also sending out the right agenda to them as well our agenda, and
we really mean that agenda.
It's not about just a line of the of the meeting tag title, but actually something even that's a terrible
title.
It's difficult to read, put it on a real agenda in that invitation, send it to them, put it in the
Google calendar so they know how to go.
And that is like one of like 90% of the thing to have a great kickoff of of a meeting.
Number two, first, focus on the on the year really goal and how this meeting is connected to that
yearly goal That's very important.
Number two so let's say about your sales target is a particle number.
Let's say you have sales target is $10 million.
And now it's already October of the year.
But your sales target is only 50% of that one.
So now you're doing a sales strategy review meeting.
So your starting would be like this.
Hey guys.
We start out our sales plan with $10 million right now in the middle of the year, right now, almost
across the middle of the like 70% of the year is gone.
But now we only get 50%, so we are kind of 20% behind.
So now we're sitting on this meeting to make sure that we do review our strategies to get going in the
right direction so we can hit our mark so that few lines set the thing to very clear to everyone that
what they're going to discuss and what exactly the problem and how important is this meeting, because
it actually connected the big goal in the company.
So there will be more passionate, they will be much more clear, and they will be willing to bring
great things thing to the table.
Their ideas, their sharing their support into the table because it's the company vision.
So every meeting should be connected to your that big, big vision of the company, what you're trying
to achieve as well.
To set the tone on this part.
Number three, let everyone read the agenda for two minutes.
This is exactly what Bezos does in Amazon.
He set up the meetings.
Everybody is already have an agenda, right?
Because like I said, the one before the meeting, you must send the agenda.
So everybody has the agenda.
So now you're going to give them two minutes for everyone to read the agenda.
So, so you just it's just tell them guys you have the agenda in your in your in your phone, in your,
in your laptops or print it in front of you.
Go through it.
I'm going to give you two minutes.
There should be an absolute silence.
No talking else.
Just read the agenda.
So that means that will prepare them mentally.
Even they have seen somewhere because few the agenda like few days ago or few hours ago, or maybe the
beginning of the week.
They have done so many things they they cannot remember.
So now is the time to get the agenda reviewed so they can get ready what they're going to talk about
and what they're going to add and contribute values to this meeting.
And now number four, let them speak now.
Until now, you have not let any of the participants speak.
Now you're going to give them 30s to one minute max to talk about the key interests about this meeting
or the key idea they're going to contribute about any particular agenda.
It just 30s to one minute, you're going to tell them that, hey guys, I'm going to go around the table
30s to one minute.
Just pick it out.
If it's long enough, we're going to discuss later.
And if it's a really great idea for boosting that idea, we will book another meeting, not this one.
This is the one we're going to focus about overall strategy.
And it may break down to multiple other meetings to discuss and dissect other great strategies as well.
To number five, now start going through the agenda.
So now you're going to start with one, two, three, four.
Keep going through the agenda.
Mention that hey we're now going to start with agenda number one.
This is the title you start.
And now you're going to close it out with this one.
We have just completed the number one discussion.
So now I'm going to move to the next agenda item number two.
And this is the title.
So you basically start the agenda close the agenda and you kick off the next agenda.
So that means it shows you're going to progress.
Even you can talk about right now we are 40% completed with our agenda.
So right now we are complete 80% of our agenda.
You can actually percentage that one how much you get the progress.
So when you show that the amount of progress you are showing to everyone, people will start to see
how much actually they are making progress about their agenda.
And that is a really great thing because they are seeing that, okay, things are moving forward, we're
not stuck, and our discussion is moving forward because end of the day, maybe they have other meetings
to do and they want to see progress.
And when the people see progress, they always get excited about and get buy in and they get contribute
value into that one.
Two so as a team leader or a manager or director, you need to create that momentum all the time in
the meeting.
Number six, you need to take notes.
It's very important in the meeting.
There's a lot of idea coming in, something you can discuss on, something you need to discuss a little
bit later.
Something you have to discuss outside the meeting too?
So as a manager, director or leading the meeting, you need to be always taking notes.
You can take notes in your computer, or you can take notes in a white paper sometime.
I love to take a white white notes as well, because sometimes my computer is already occupied by putting
a slide, and I don't want to bother into that machine.
So I like to take notes.
And when you're taking notes, it's kind of a viral because everybody sees that you're taking notes.
So other stuff to take notes too.
And that's overall that's a great note taking culture.
So which is a great value for the overall company.
And and the meetings you are actually conducting right now.
Number seven meeting minutes after the meeting.
Meeting finished you actually your notes to turn into meeting minutes where you write down very clearly
that what are the key actions you're going to do and send it to everyone, send it to everyone, which
is the ninth of the tips, which actually only eight of the tips actually send that the meeting minutes
to everyone.
Make sure that everybody who participated in the meeting are sending out the meeting minutes.
But however, there are some people maybe could not join the meeting to send them the meeting minute
unit two as well, so they can also read and understand what actually the key thing assigned or has
been discussed in that meeting.
Number nine.
So this is also related to the meeting unit two as well.
Assign each of the task to someone in the meeting.
Because everybody before me leaving the meeting, they should be knowing what exactly thing they need
to do right after the meeting.
So they should have a clear goal of what exactly they are going to do on that meeting.
So everything you have discussed write down as a task and assign to each of the people in your team
member in the, in the, in the meetings, and then you write it down in the meeting unit and assign
this task to the people with the deliverables.
If they don't agree on a particular deliverables, you say that to be discussed by the time or to be
provided by the time you highlight that I want to, and you send out with the clearly assigned list.
Because meeting should create a lot of actions, and meeting without just discussions is not just not
a really valuable tool.
You need to have a key takeaway actions right after the meetings, and you need to write it down in
your meeting minutes.
Who is going to do what by when?
win very clearly.
Number ten, duration of the meeting.
You need to be really passionate about it.
So you need to really understand about this one too.
Because if I just use the word um intentionally said because I really want you to passionately set it
up, because if you set up a really long meeting, nobody's going to get excited.
So you got to be really careful about what the depth of the agenda and how many agenda you're putting
into that one.
To always put the same type of agenda together.
Group don't put different kind of agenda put all together and don't create a meeting stew.
And that is like a lot of people like they get bored about it and that's not a good thing.
Focus on a particular thing.
Bring a bundle with the same type and just get it done.
So that is very important to.
And the last tips I want to do which is a bonus is about is exactly coming from also Amazon and also
Bezos.
Around that I want to the two pizza effect.
So that means the two pizza can be amount.
How many people a meeting should not have more than one.
So just think about how many people can eat two pizza and will be quite satisfied for 812 Max.
So your meeting shouldn't be more than that amount of people.
So there will be enough focus into that discussions.
And they are related directly, and they will be contributed and they will be adding value.
Because if you're adding more people, they will not be able to focus and you will not be able to focus
enough then as well to and then and it's not going to work.
So that means you need to choose the people very carefully who are subject matter expert or decision
makers to come into the meetings and conduct the decision discussions with you and get things moving
forward.
And here we go.
I give you total 11 tips you can use to make your meeting really productive right after by using these
tips.
So here you go.
You got 11 tips to conduct great meetings, use it in your next meetings and become a successful manager,
director or executive or entrepreneur.
All the best.

--- Micro Productivity: Mastering Time to Maximize Your Impact ---

If I see I can read any particular article, I will just get it done and I'll read it in the to me if
I see it so small, if I have small micro block, if I'm doing any particle to it, or I have to make
a particle post, I will just.
It takes two minutes and two minutes.
I'll just get it done.
I will not leave it for together, because two small things can create a lot of mess in the planning
over time, so I just get it done immediately.
What I really do is about batching the same thing together.
I will be looking for similar kind of things, get it done together.
Like an example if I am going to, um, to get a project done.
So what I will looking about, I will look up to all the similar kind of tasks.
If I can get it done in a particular day, I will not leave this.
Each of the related task, even that can be done tomorrow or day after tomorrow.
But if I see that these are all bundled together, I will get it together the same way.
Like in the video I am producing, I will not create one video, I'll create 2 or 3 video at the same
time, and then I read them together and I'll get them.
So when I bundle it together, firstly I have a momentum.
Plus I to get any particular thing.
Like any editing, I have to I have to sit down and put light on and get the camera set ups.
So it actually costs time.
So.
So what I do is about I do an a bunch, edit it together so I can reuse the same piece of time together.
So end of the day I can produce it all together.
So it's really saved me over time as well too.
Uh I never watch TV, so I never watch TV alone myself.
So I have even a TV in my in my home.
I also have a TV, TV network as well too.
And I basically last November I moved to a new apartment and after moving to a new apartment, I got
a new TV, and then I and I actually took the cable connection in my TV because normally I before moving
to a new apartment, I didn't really take the cable connection into the one because I was stopped this
one for years watching TV because I if I'm alone, I would never do it.
So that time I just want to do an experiment.
I took a cable connection, and I see that I started watching TV and find out.
It's really costing a lot of time because basically I just turn it on and I start to watch TV.
Even sometimes I just want to see for five minutes.
I know I'm watching 30.
So then I realized that watching TV is actually very time consuming.
So even watching movie at home, I will never do that even online.
In computer, I will not do that in Netflix.
I want to do it as well.
So I will only do it when I'm with some other friends.
Then I will watch it.
I will only watch movie if when I go to theater with other friends.
Normally I even don't go to theater to watch movie alone as well to save time at the same time.
Even micro thing like an example.
If I'm going out, I'll try to do other things on the way.
Let's say example when I'm coming back from office, what I will do is on the way back from the office,
I will have dinners and then I'll come back home.
Then I will take shower and I will do something else.
So if I would not do that one, I would be somebody typical will be like like this from office coming
straight to home.
Change shower, going out again, have dinner and then come back and that extra going out again.
Have dinner and coming back again is a complete waste of time.
So that's why I like to save the time and time and can use the time to do other things like this.
So like this I like to save time and different activities on my of my day.
So that really helped me to accommodate the the other lot of things which I really want to get it done.
If your professional or your student, your corporate person or even an entrepreneur, end of the day
you have to use computer, right?
You spend a lot of time in the computer.
So one of the things I really do is about I also do because I'm a CIO, I'm a computer science and engineering
student.
I have learned year after year, then I become art director and coder, software engineer, project
manager, and now I'm a CIO.
So what happens in this role is I spend a lot of time in computer.
So what I do is about I have learned how to use the different keyboard shortcut, but I use Mac.
So Mac has a really good shortcut to windows.
Also have relatively quite good shortcut as well too.
So I use all the shortcuts of my computer and that really helped me out to save the time, find the
documents, open different windows, open browsers and bookmarks and all those things.
Those really help me to get me get going forward.
So I like to keep all the related documents were really open.
Like normally I open like ten tabs, 2015 tabs at the same time.
So I need a good computer for that.
But that really helped me to save my time using shortcuts and keeping some important tabs always open
in front of me.
So the next thing I do is.
The 11th thing I do is about I have a 25 minutes focus and five minute rest.
So what I do is about when I'm doing only that thing, but other times, because I will not be blocking
every possible day, then I will become like a robot, right?
And people need to call me up.
My my organization.
People will call me up.
Maybe my group leader or director will call me up for particular support.
I need to check the emails to the different people who are working with me.
They're sending me emails, so I need to respond to them, and my respond is important to them because
they want to get a feedback as soon as possible.
So what I do on this one is about when I'm not blocking my time, what I'm going to do is about, um,
in 25 minutes, I'll do something.
Let's say I'm having a conversation.
Um, focus on that one, get it done, and then I will try to end that conversation in 25 minutes.
And next five minutes I will do some checking.
Like the next five minutes, I'll look some emails, look some key messages.
So I might filter my message as well.
So normally I don't look at all the messages I focus about which time I'm looking, what kind of message.
If it's a work related message, I'll be looking about to see my different work related message.
Let's say about in office.
I will use work chat.
I will use slack to see what related message and then other time in lunch time or after lunch time,
I'll be looking for other friends chats like Messenger and Facebook or LinkedIn.
I will look into it normally.
I often prioritize LinkedIn message compared to Facebook Messenger because LinkedIn professional networks,
probably they were sending me something for employment or get a particular advice they will look for.
Career.
I love to do this.
These things.
I find it more interesting for my keyboard typing speed.
I will tell you that how much really I invested to build my keyboard shortcut, because I'm telling
you that writing keyboard typing without looking into the screen is really takes a lot of time.
If you are not have not built that skill in very earlier part of your life.
So I did not went until I was a university student, and I was studying computer science and engineering,
and so and I did not know how to write keyboard without looking at the keyboard because I just.
And then I one day I realized that the amount of time I'm going to spend in computer, I really need
to learn how to keyboard learn type faster, because typing really fast really helped me to get things.
A lot of things getting together.
And one of the one of the basic thing I also need to do is about how to type the things without looking
at the keyboard correctly, because then I can focus on looking at the screen, and then I can keep
typing into it and I can correct and I can focus about, process it and put it in the screen.
And anything wrong I can get it fixed.
So.
So what is the funny thing is, is that one that time when I was a university student in computer science
engineering, I was studying about.
So my one of my classmate opened up a blog, and in the blog they have been reading a lot of texts and
I figured out that how about I try to?
Because that time I was, I was practicing that keyboard things, and I made my promise that I'm going
to write every blog comments reply, and I'm going to not looking at the keyboard.
So without looking at the keyboard, I was replying and a lot of typing I was putting into it and there
was a lot of typos actually.
Basically I just started, right?
So a lot of my friends made a joke about it and say, you're typing really wrong.
You cannot understand what you're talking about.
But I see this one as one of my push to to learn even faster, use it as a feedback.
And I did not get scared about it.
So and I keep using keep using the keyboard.
One day I even left the blog and I didn't find another way.
Different kind of keyboard software typing software.
And I started using that one too.
But that, um, that typing wrong.
I did not make an excuse to myself to stop giving my my effort of learning how to type without looking
at the keyboard, but I use it as an own favor to push myself to learn even faster.
So this is the thing you need to do if you really want to.
Looking to make your keyboard type faster?
Don't be shy about it.
You're going to make a lot of mistakes, use it and and find a way to improve it.
It's going to take you a few months or probably a year based on how much effort you're putting into
it.
So I did this one and it really, really helped me.
It really saved a lot of time because I spent a lot of time in keyboard, because the CIO as a founder
or or different in conference talk and workshop and training and in computers and in computer means
and typing.
So, um, so these are the 12 tips I'm really doing I everything 12 tricks I do every day, consistent
manner and after quick keep practicing again and again every day.
Over time I even get even better.
So that's why it's really helped me out to, to to make my day in a really impactful manner so I can
do a lot of things getting done.
So if you are using and your life to be more, more productivity, you are looking to become more get
things done.
You can use any of the tips.
You have only one life to live.
I have, I don't know I have ever lived, I'm gonna ever live or not.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to make the best use of my day.
And one of the best use of my day is this one to being very productive.
So for me, I always focus on my productivity, make the best use of my day because I know the day is
gone.
I will never get it back.
So the only thing I can do make the best out of my day.
And here's my 12 things so which I use to make my day productivity.
You can use them, become more productive and become successful.
All the best.

--- Mind Over Matter: Strategies for Consistency Through Mental Health Care ---

And so in this video I'm going to give you six tips which can help you out to be more happy in your
life without quitting anything.
It's about it's not going to be a tips like in example cliche that I work with or go for traveling for
long period of time and get disconnected from the rest of the world.
No, I'm not going to give you such kind of shaggy and crazy tips.
I'm going to give you a very specific thing which you can really use and practice by being yourself
from today, right after watching this video.
So if you're waiting for.
Let's get started.
Number one, recognize the good thing as a professional or as an entrepreneur.
Whatever amount of life you have left 20 years, 18 years or 15 years or even 30 years, you have lived
a certain period of life of yourself.
So in that period of time, what is very crucial is about you to think about what is the good thing
you have in your life.
Like an example, what are the achievements you really do for me?
What are the good things that you have?
You have a complete, workable, functional body and you are absolutely can work.
So this is something a very valuable one that a lot of people in this world doesn't have it.
So if you have a complete functional body you should be putting into and make the right use of it and
be more happy rather than being more depressed and lost yourself somewhere else.
So that's why it's so much important that you got to be recognized.
What a good thing.
The second thing, what are the achievements you made?
You probably become a doctor.
You become an engineer or become a dentist, or even become an IT engineer or become a marketer.
Whatever sort of achievement you have done in your life.
So in a career thing and that you have to put a lot of effort to create this achievement, nobody just
gave you these achievements.
So embrace those achievements.
Be yourself more happy.
You can think about that, what you have done.
And now think about what is the next thing you can do as well to become more successful.
So focus on the good things you have in your life.
I'm not telling you the negative thing.
Focus on the good thing you had in focus?
How you can make it better?
Those good things.
So that will take you to much more interesting life rather than when you start thinking, what do you
really suck at or you're not really good at?
And if you try to make a really improvement plan to be quite difficult for you to actually improve themselves
rather than focusing on the things you are not really good, let's focus on the thing which you are
really good at it, and then you can focus and keep improving them, and that will make your life actually
more happier because you have something to do every day.
Number two, living in the present, I am the one of the person who actually suffered a lot about this
one, because I was paying a lot of attention and realized that I was not really paying a lot of time
in the present.
I was so much living in the future, and I was doing everything for the future, and I was not really
paying a lot of attention to my present.
And this is something Covid really helped me out to recognize that it's a major point of view for me
to realize that I need to live in the present to.
I get a lot of amazing things going on, and I have a lot of amazing people in my life, so why I don't
spend time and enjoy my prison as well too, because whatever in the past used to be my present.
So whatever.
Tomorrow will be my present too.
So join my present moments.
It's so much important because it's all about I'm living my present, not just past or future.
I need to be aware about that future.
And I've been planning and putting the right planning, investing my effort and so on.
But however, end of the day, I'm always living on the present, and that is so crucial that I'm understanding.
Like an example, you could have a drink and you can enjoy the taste of the drink, or you can have
your food, or you can enjoy the taste of the food.
You are sitting down with the person you really love.
You can enjoy the moment of being with the person.
So that is very important.
Or you are.
You are spending time with your family.
You enjoy the great moments with your family too.
This is really, really important.
So living and enjoying the present moments are really crucial.
And if you do that actively, so sometimes you just miss that out.
When you're sitting down with our loved one or living with your family and watching something really
inspiring, and you just don't pay attention to it.
Busy with our cell phone, looking some other things, which doesn't really make sense to us.
So put it on aside.
Enjoy this moment and those people who are around us, which I really love and care about us, enjoy
this great moment with them and that will really make us happy.
Number three, life is interesting when you have a dream.
It's such a important thing.
I realized in my life.
My life is never as interesting as it is.
When I started to do the Vista Group, I had a mission and I had a dream to create a nonprofit organization,
an ecosystem to solve a big problem.
And it sounds very impossible.
It sounds like it cannot be done.
It's impossible mission, but it's a dream to solve it out.
So everybody has a dream.
So you have your dreams too.
So it's try to find some dreams in your life and pursue them yourself.
Commit yourself and try to avail them, and that will make your life really interesting to you, and
that will get you going forward on the stream and you'll be acting more interesting thing on your life.
And the second thing I also mentioned about education if you don't have a dream, which is absolutely
fine, find the people who have a dream and join them, and then that will be a great way to have a
dream as well, to listen to their their dream.
And is it just something excite you?
Great.
Join them and share that excitement journey with them.
It doesn't necessarily to be have your own dream because end of the day you'll never able to make your
own dream alone.
Country.
True, because world is a team game and anything you want to do, good or even great always need to
work together.
So it's nothing wrong to join other people's dreams and work together and make the dream come true,
and enjoy the journey of creating the dream to reality and share the success together.
And that's also equally important.
Like an example, you and your friend maybe go to one place and and you're seeing that after trying
like 30 minutes, you've been playing billiard.
After 40, 15 minutes, you figure out that your friends are really good and doing the balls really,
really well and scoring.
And you are still struggling a lot.
So that means what does it mean that every people learns things in a different way?
So like an example, a lot of people you are going to learn in one way.
Other people will learn different ways.
So like an example I like to call it a two way of learning.
One is a stupid learning and a smart learning.
The stupid learning is you're going to make your own mistake in your life, and then you'll learn,
or you'll make mistake and keep making mistake and keep making mistake and you learn too slow.
That is even more stupid and mistake.
So the best way of stupid learning or mistake you make mistake one time and you don't make it again.
You learn from it and you avoid that.
And the smart way of learning mistake is this one is about is you are doing your great stuff and you
look around what other people doing something in that field and you learn from their own, their mistakes
and you adopt.
And that is called smart learning.
And so but however, figure out what is your learning pattern and you improve that.
If you are a smart learning already great find a way faster process of learning from other people.
If you are learning stupid mistakes, how many times does it take for you to make mistakes to learn
from it?
So if it takes ten times to learn one mistake, one lesson reduced to nine or 8 or 7, that will really
help you out too.
So?
So pay attention.
The different people learn.
Figure out what is your way of learning and you improve your learning ability, because that will help
you to gain more skill and improve your life quality.
And that is relatively proportional to happiness you have in your life.
Because if you improve your life quality, that means your skill set or professional life or even hobbies,
things that will bring you more, more rewards for your life and that will make your life more happy
as well.
It's very important to become a better of humans.
There are two aspects.
One is a skill as a professional skill set.
Whatever work you're doing, find a better way to better make yourself more better into that one.
And and if you if and find another way to make it doing it in a shorter period of time, like an example,
try to improve the quality, reduce the the the processing time of doing it and improve the quality.
So that's a very nice metric.
So you could just reduce of doing that one and the same time you can improve the quality too.
So you will see that everything you are doing in professional life, there's a lot of rooms you can
improve that way too because there's a two dimension to it.
Now that's the professional side.
Let me talk about the other side.
It's about your own personal life.
So in your own personal life, it's also very crucial because in your own personal life, you probably
you figured out that what is your core values you have, how kind you are, how humble you are, how
nice you are, how is your communication skill, how much you spend time you spend with a loved one
or family, or how much how you interact with other people.
Improve the skill set.
So?
So this is the thing the two two aspect.
You are not competing with anyone.
You should be competing with yourself.
And when you're competing on yourself and you see improvement on this thing, that will make you happy,
because anything you see that you have a better version of yourself, you will feel very like me, myself
when I see myself in five years or three years.
And now I feel amazingly happy that, oh my God, I have improved this, this, this things so far and
that makes me happy.
At the same time, it gives me the inspiration to even to be more better.
So next two, three years later, I want to look back to myself.
I want to see that I have improved a lot.
Like an example.
One of the common thing, like I met videos years back and I look at my old videos, I said, oh my
God, did I really say it that way?
And now I could say in so much, much more easier way, I can explain it much more, better way so everybody
can understand the same way.
Today, this video I'm making right now, next five years later, I'm going to look back to this video
and I want to have that happiness.
Oh, John.
In 2021, make that video.
Oh.
In 2025, I can actually make a video much more interesting way.
So yeah, I've improved my that skill or the same that way.
I was interacting with my friends before.
Now I interact another way and it's much more interesting now.
I rather than focusing with a lot of friends, I just focus with a small group of friends who are really
quality one, and even I let people go for my social media.
I see that, oh, we're not getting a conversation going on.
Well, I will let you go and I will find other people and let other people to come to my social media
circle so they feel that they're well connected and we keep, keep being friends.
And the quality of the friendship can be better too.
So this is the thing about you are not competing with anyone else.
You should be always competing with yourself to be better, and that is one of the way you could be
great happiness as well over time.
Because anytime when you focus into it, you'll improve yourself.
The second is follow your heart.
I know it's a difficult one.
I know that many of you said, oh, we don't know what our heart really wants.
Find it.
What do you really want?
Listen to me.
Sometimes your heart really wants.
Sometimes if your heart is said that it's a lot of work done.
I just spend some time with my loved one.
Or I want to spend a little bit of time with my brother or my mom or dad.
Do it.
It's fine if you're going to make you happy.
At the same time you figure out, oh, I spent too much of time on traveling.
Now I'm going to work.
I want to create something.
I want to make something go on.
I want to create a new product, or I want to get some really good, good skill set for my career.
Or you follow it.
Do that is hard saying it.
Oh, you figured out, oh, last two years of time I have not learned anything new.
So I should learn something.
Yes.
Learn that.
Find a course.
Which can you learn online?
Offline?
There is a free course.
A lot of available.
Even in the video description.
We have a manager level course available as well too called Pro Manager X.
Go ahead and take it and get a certificate out of it and celebrate your success as well too.
It is a four way Cell based.
And so that means you can do it the way you want to do.
And the same way it's absolutely sponsored by his academy.
So you don't need to pay any penny for that one.
It will be send it to you.
So go ahead and you can start with that one.
Even you don't know where to start.
Take a course.
So here we go.
Now, anything you feel in your heart sometimes say you need to listen to and take an action.
But yeah, sometimes you heard.
Probably if you don't educate your heart right away, it will give you some wrong advice or make you
do something wrong, which is not good for your health and your reputation and also family.
Of course you want to filter them out, but following your heart is one of the great way of being more
happy too.
So here we go.
You got total six tips to be more happy in your life.

--- Powerful Questions: Unlocking Candidate Potential in Interviews ---

Congratulations.
You have successfully become a manager or now it's time for you to recruit new team members.
Why?
Because as a manager, one of the most crucial thing you got to do all the time is about building the
right teams to work inside of your team.
Bring the right people to your team.
So how do you do that?
Right?
So you have to do each of you right.
You probably attract the best talent, but now you need to interview to filter the right talent to join
your team.
How to do this one.
Congratulations.
Not a problem, because in this video I'm going to give you a total of five questions is a must ask
question for a new manager when you are hiring new people to join.
This is.
The five questions can give you really great insight to see how the candidate is about.
You want that, right?
Because you want to use this one to bring great people to your team.
Become successful, right?
So what are you waiting for?
Let's get started.
Number one is a core value alignment.
So ask questions like this.
When are your core values?
A lot of people actually doesn't understand a single word about my bags, so you can actually make it
easier if they don't get the hottest score value.
You can ask about products that you mostly don't like.
And then they answer it right.
You can ask, what is the second most exciting moment in your life?
And those are relatively affordable, and many people will say a lot of things.
And you can ask, why does it excite you most?
And then they will tell you, so this is the way you can talk about understand their core value.
And then you can tell this one you're going to tell your company's product.
Let's say a 1 to 3 five whatever amount of core value you have in your company.
What are you going to mention?
Like an example for my group we have six core values.
Number one is about teamwork.
Together we help people with teamwork.
Number two, we turn an idea to an action.
Number three, we talk about.
We learn new skill every day.
Number four is determination for result.
Number five is comes with becoming better every day.
And number six is sustainable development, which is about processes.
So why did we talk about you just mentioning all the six core values or 4 or 5 amount of core value
you have.
You mentioned it.
You can.
And you say how do you feel this hold up.
Where do you see yourself?
How do you relate yourself to each of the core values?
So that is one of the great way to assess a particular candidate, that how they are well aligned to
a core value.
So this is if you do hire people based on your core value and the people who does not comply to your
core values, you fire them forward.
And that creates a great culture for a company based on your on your core values.
And that's something that's a brilliant aspect to do.
And I always promote and focus to doing that one thing as well.
So that's the way you first thinking about you focus about core value alignment with the candidate,
with your company or brand.
Number two, always hire the A-players.
So what is a player?
So when you talk about airplay as this about you focus about self-managing and secondly is about how
responsible they are.
So you can ask them about tell me something, an example where you was very responsible in your particular
job, in your previous company.
They will say something that is great and then you can do the same thing.
Give me an example where he was really responsible in previous to previous company.
So they will be telling you stories and from the story, quality of details will always give you really
good.
So when you're listening to the story, always pay attention the level of detail that they provided
to you.
Don't rush it out.
Let them speak.
You focus on listening.
A lot of hiring managers make this mistake is about because they are not well trained.
You are not there to speak.
You are there to listen.
If you have been focusing about too much speaking, you are not letting the candidates speaking and
you are actually going to the whole different places which you don't want to be, right.
Your mission is to assess the candidate, not to show that you are good.
You're already good.
So that's why you're hiring manager.
So you don't have to prove anything else.
You let the candidates that you ask the right questions so you can ask about.
Um, so these are the two things I'm going to help you to understand about the player as player.
Always have a two key things about self managing and self responsible.
The really response to do the things with high responsibility.
And they'll know how to manage their time and their resources and get things done.
So that's why they're a player.
Number three commitment.
So you got to assess the level of commitment.
So because when you hiring someone to join your team.
So one of the key things you need to move forward is about check that how well they can do the thing.
How much you can really depend on them.
You hire them.
You let them to do something and then falling apart, they're not doing delivering on time.
So that is not a great dependability, right?
You just keep hobbling around what what need to be done.
What's going on.
So that is not really helping you right.
So The key aspect on this one is about you got to be always looking for the candidates who can commit
what they need to be done.
There may be an outstanding series, but how much committed they are, how much committed they are to
your product, how much they committed to your company, how much committed they need your team.
So you can ask some question like for example, give me an example where he was really committed for
your particular company.
Well, tell me an example where we really committed to your particular something even outside the work
could be a good example.
And really listen to that.
And the level of detail can really help you out how committed they are, because we need people who
can commit to the people who doesn't commit you to just playing around.
You're going to keep the focus.
Your team will turn into like a like a Barcelona football match.
Everybody just keep passing the ball, nobody taking the shots.
You don't need a team like this.
You need a team to keep going and keep scoring and support each other.
Yeah, you should sometimes toss the ball to let other people score.
That's another thing.
But you are not your back busting and putting inside because you don't want to go forward, just want
to play around.
And that is one of the horrible way to destroy the team culture.
And you don't want to have a team like that, particularly if you have one people like that who go viral
and a lot of other people say they are doing it, they start to mimicking and then everybody would do
it.
So very careful about this.
Number four, try to figure out that how well idea they have.
Because if you know the research that IBM has been done with 1600 CEOs, and in that research work,
what they have found out, 50% CEO say that they need the skill to make sure the future proof of the
company is the creativity.
So you need the people who are more creative and creative.
People can come up with a lot of ideas so you can ask them, give me an example.
The idea you have contributed in the in the last company who made a remarkable aspect progress in the
company or previous company.
And then you can do the flip around.
Tell me an aspect, a great idea you build it on in your life and last on your time, which actually
made a big impact for your own life.
So your company, yourself and now you can bring it to you.
Okay.
You have a look at our product, our company.
One of the one of the great idea comes to your mind right now.
If you would like to share with you the great value of our product and and and you love to work on that
idea when you're on board, don't mention the last boss and you will love to onboard to work on that
idea to make it happen.
And then you will listen with these three aspect every time they're answering you listen, listen,
listen.
Listening is the game.
If you sit back and listen to some level of details will help you understand how well convincing they
are and how really they are doing it before and going to do.
They haven't because the person who really did something before, they have a clear understanding of
how to do it before, so they're going to do it in the same way.
And that's the only the key reason that company always look for experience people, not for you.
And that's a whole difference.
Like people who did it once, they know how to do it and they will do it probably a little more better,
as long as they are well integrated and well connected.
The people who don't know how to do it never did it before.
They will always humble and they will always resist.
They will always bring a lot of chaos in the team.
And you need a team, team, player team with a pool of people who create this chaos.
And then you solve chaos rather than creating problems, right?
So here we go.
So these are the top five questions I would like to suggest with you.
You must ask and I already explained to you why do you really ask as well too?
So there you go.
Today you got my five tips with five key questions aspect you must ask to every interview.
Make sure that you bring the right people into it, use it, and keep building a team to crush your
success.
For all the best.

--- Productivity Unleashed: Skills to Elevate Your Team's Performance ---

So in this video, I'm going to share with you the seven traits of a skillful politician team member
so you can recognize them following these traits and take the right action on them as well too.
What does a skillful politician.
A skillful politicians are extremely hungry and they are extremely smart, but they're absolutely not
humble.
So in their work and everything they do in their life, in the company, everything they do is only
about themselves.
And they are the one who take a series of decisions and make a series of actions, which is absolutely
winning.
Only them, not the organization and not their team.
Absolutely not.
So they do all kind of thing for their own personal gain, for not for their gain of the team.
So now I'm going to tell you the seven traits of so you can easily pick those skillful politician.
After watching this video, the number one traits they are never happy for other people.
They always, when you see that some of the other people going on, you can look at this.
They probably give you a smile.
You just pay attention to your smile and you will see it's not a true smile, it's a fake smile.
So example, somebody got promoted in the company and you say to to them and then they probably will
not give you an expression or they'll say a normal face, or maybe they will smile, but the smile is
not right.
So that is one of the trick.
So they are never happy when the other people in the organization got promoted or doing something great
result for the company.
So now the trade number two for them.
It's always a personal goal, always a personal goal.
Every decision they do is only for themselves.
Let's say example, when they set up the budget only to share about about their own own goals and own
departments, um, then never doing the budget for the whole team.
So probably the personal development plan, one of the trade you could do example when they do the personal
development plan plan for the year, you see how much budget they put for themselves and how much budget
they put for the whole team.
So that is one of the places you can really spot them out easily.
It's about only their goal first.
So number three.
Number three they never promote the others.
They only promote themselves.
You will never say that they are telling other other people doing great works and to to particle leader
let's say about a manager who is a personal and trade has this this skillful politician.
And you you will see that they will never promote another great managers who are doing great works to
their director, to their to their boss or even the CEO.
Even you see, if their manager example or their director, maybe they are one of the direct report
doing great works.
They will never promote about them.
It's not a promote doesn't mean that just promote them by position.
It could be just that hey, you know what?
I got this manager in my team.
He's doing great work.
I love him and I'm saying that how we can keep always keeping you inspired.
I love this guy, and I want to take this thing forward.
And I want him to stay longer in this company with us so we could produce, keep producing great results.
So that is one of the example when a great leader does it and there's a skillful politician never does
it.
So this is one of the trait as well too.
So now the three number four they actually promote the wrong people.
So you know that probably they will do the opposite of that.
So this is where you see you know that it's somebody is a manager and that person is a skillful politician
among all the other managers, the one who are doing really bad or struggling and not performing well.
This is the manager.
This person will promote them and say, oh, that guy is doing great works.
Or maybe a director has a six direct report and one of the manager is the weakest.
And they will say about the weakest manager, oh, he's doing great work.
No worries.
He's doing great.
All fun.
It's a very confusing and very wrong information for the organization because that person who is not
doing really well getting praise.
One thing going ahead that the person will not take the right feedback to improve themselves, and also
the top management getting the wrong information about that person as well too, and also not getting
the right support as well so that person can improve as well too.
So that was the tweet number four.
So tweet number five.
There they are.
Focus is all about their own decision.
They just only care about their own decision.
And they only want to push for that.
They will never want to listen to what the other people are saying.
Let's say about when a director is a skillful politician, he will or she will never listen to all the
managers in his team and in create a kind of a dysfunctional level 5 or 4 artificial dysfunction level
for even all the managers to trust themselves.
But he will be in the middle like this and often he create but as.
But remember, he's a skillful right.
He's very charmer.
Uh, he's smart.
So he will create this situation not all the time, but if you pay attention over time, you will see
that kind of patterns coming into it.
And now the trade number six.
They never gave the credit to the team when any kind of or sometimes they give.
But most of the time all the group credits are for themselves.
So when when you see something great happens, it's come to their their own credit.
First, let's say a team did a great work and the managers, the skillful politician will say, yeah,
this is great work.
Thank you very much.
They will never say actually team that that person also worked with me and they did a great work together.
And it's a combined team effort.
A director is going to do the same as well too.
But if there is a bad thing happening in the team, then they will immediately say or a little while
he will say, okay, that was a person in my team.
He did the bad work and it is his responsibility and he break all things apart.
So now we need to take action around him and and do you have any suggestion they will actually raise
questions for that?
People to give feedback and take action about him India.
So that is called skillful polishing.
Trade number six.
The always give the credit for themselves and any kind of negative feedback for them.
Actually not always they are skillful right.
So sometimes they actually try to do a balance to you, but in deep dive into your heart all the good
credit for themselves.
So now the seventh trait.
They always hire wrong people.
They always hire wrong people means they always hire people who are not the best in the networks, who
are not the best people in the in the hiring process.
So if you pay attention to the recruitment pattern for next 6 to 1 year of time, you will see the only
hire people who are worse or not the best candidate or probably do not have the best attitude.
So probably you don't have the best technical skill, but probably that person was working with that
person before in different company, or have some kind of relationship outside and through that he normally
choose.
And now you ask them why they choose always the people they they already worked before kind of friends
before already, because they know that they already have influence on that people.
And that person already know that that person is a skillful politician and they are comfortable about
it.
And so they can work together easily.
And they do.
I'm not saying that every, every, every hiring manager who are writing hiring from their own networks
are skillful politician.
But but the skillful politician always does that.
They always hire and select the people from their own personal relationship and own personal networks,
and ignore even the great talent who came brought it up through the talent acquisition channel, through
an HR department to the organization, and they just keep ignore them.
Or mostly they ignore them.
Sometimes they think because because they are smart to.
So look at the end of the seventh rate, I just give it to you.
One thing you need to understand the skillful politician is deeply, deeply smart and deeply hungry.
So as they deeply smart.
So they are the hardest one to to track.
And so they are the one who can make the most amount of damage in the team as well too.
So the seventh treat, I give it to you if you follow it for consistent manner for 3 to 6 months of
time, and then you should be leveling them.
Firstly, when you see there is some threat coming on, then you can level them as a yellow yellow level,
and then you can keep following that from another 3 to 6 months of time, and then you can bring it
to red zone.
But when you see that person, somebody already think that yellow and more, then you can start to have
some kind of coaching session for that person indirectly, not directly, because if you give them direct
feedbacks or direct training programme, they understand, hey, they have been spotted out and they
will be even more harder to track.
They will go more deep down into it, but personally.
So you should be doing this indirect mentoring to see how things are going.
But if you see that they are not improving, make a fast decision to make a great change in the teams.
I always think that you should make it fast.
You should never do it later.
Faster you do better.
It is so the skillful politicians are smarter.
So you should be paying attention.
And you should be also smart when you make decisions as well too.
And you should be giving yourself to track those trails to make sure that you actually bring and spot
the skillful politician.
And then you can take the right decision to protect your team.
So there is no dysfunctions levels in your team, even from the deep dive inside.
So if you don't know, what are the Five dysfunctions of the team?
I also had another video.
Watch that video.
So you know that all the five level of dysfunctions any, any team can have.
So after watching that video, you can assess what are the dysfunctions you have in your team so you
can take right action to solve them.
All the best.
Keep enjoying your leadership role.

--- Profile Building | How to Strategically Publish Your Certification on LinkedIn ---

So now you have already got the certificate.
Here is the certificate already ready.
So now the goal is to all about publishing the certificate into the LinkedIn.
It's not just by making a post and announcing it, but actually adding it in your LinkedIn.
So how are you going to do that one and how it will become a part of your achievement?
So every recruiter, every line manager's hiring manager will be able to see it, and you will understand
that you are already done the program and you're going to be a great asset for the team.
How can you do that?
I'm going to show you right now.
So now this is the linear profile.
And LinkedIn has so many sections right now right.
So this is the way you typically look into normally you already always up to date the job experiences
the area and education for the next thing.
Now we have already got the certificates that is our certificates already here.
And now we want to add it in the LinkedIn.
So now the first mistake is is trying to do is people always go down there and try to add them into
the education.
This is not eradication.
This is your certificate.
So it's a certificate area.
So now what is the certification section.
Let's put control F and type certificate.
Oh there is no certificate section into the whole LinkedIn profile.
I just searched it out.
Ctrl f but still not available.
So what to do?
Because LinkedIn by default hides these kinds of sections to make the profile shorter.
So now we can activate that one too.
So that means it will become more valuable for you moving forward.
So how to do that.
So you scroll all the way up.
You go to the Add profile section and you see the recommended section.
You click that one out and you said add license and certificate.
Bingo.
So we're going to add that one to.
So now you're going to write it down.
What is the certificate name.
Right.
You go all the way down.
So you copy the the certification names.
Ctrl paste it here.
The issuing organization.
What is the issuing organization.
Go.
Go back here.
It says Visa Pro Academy.
That's the place.
You do it.
So you write it down.
Visa pro Academy.
Write it down.
Issuing that.
What is the issuing that you find out as a Feb six, 2025.
Issuing that Feb 20, 2025.
And expiration date.
So there is no expiration date of this certificate, right?
So you don't really need to put it on as well too.
So now credential ID and credential URL are really important.
So now I'm going to show you how you can really do that one.
And here's the skill part.
And that's going to be bingo.
Because it will add in your directly in your profile as well too.
Even you can add a media on top of it too.
So now credential ID so where is the credential.
Go back to the certificate.
So you can see that the certificate ID right now right.
You just copy this link.
That's the certificate ID.
So let me just zoom a little bit so you can really see this one has the credential ID I can Ctrl c I
put down the credential.
Okay.
So now we already got the certificate ID.
So now our goal is to put a credential URL.
So now one of the biggest mistake many of the student does is about they try to put this link this certificate
ID if you just copy it.
The link I will show you what is the problem.
You put it on this one.
It will say please provide a valid ID, they just don't see it as a valid URL.
So how to deal with this thing I'm going to show you right now.
So without this one, your certificate has a lot less credibility because people will not be able to
see from a valid URL.
Right.
And that's the problem.
So now what are you going to do.
We're gonna get rid of that thing.
And now we're going to go back to Udemy.
So now this is the certificate right.
So now whenever you just click the download button right let's say jetpack, it will open up a new tab
and give you the certificate.
Right.
And it says the full Udemy certificate.
All these things you copy this link.
This is the valid one.
So now go back to LinkedIn Ctrl V.
And now it's now done.
So now you know it's time for you to add skills.
So now every courses you have at least 3 to 5 skills you have got.
You want to showcase them in your profile.
Because that's how the skills will be visible.
Because most of the time the recruiter or hiring manager, they The looking for people based on the
skills.
So you have done a course and you have got the skills.
So you must include this one.
Otherwise nobody will be able to find you whenever they are looking for that skill.
You are not listed.
You missed out the whole opportunity.
You don't want to make that happen.
So now you go and add skill.
So now it's a productivity course right?
So I'm going to write it down about productivity.
It's a productivity improvement.
You add a note add a skill productivity productivity let's say example you could do about productivity
increase another one you add another one is let's say example.
You have a leadership.
You add also the leadership as well too.
And now you can add a media, but you can just come by add a link, add a media.
You can just add a media and you can just simply directly upload your certificate as well too.
So now it's it's not a great preview though for some reason because LinkedIn want a different format.
So you could just ignore it, or you can just leave it that way or you can resize it normally.
Resize is a lot of work, but for the time being, now just go in as well and just add it on into this
one.
So now I'm going to just remove the jetpack names and I'm going to put apply.
So now you can see it's already been quite far down already and showing the certificate as well too.
And now.
But the thing is about your name of the file is really, really important because that's how you should
do.
Like example you can click the edit, make sure this one it's a, it's a, it's a proper title and otherwise
it will be a problem.
So now save now you got certificate up already.
And now what you're going to do is about yeah I'm going to fix this one.
So the logo is up because that was not logo was not showing.
So now it's the valid organization.
So now what I'm going to do I'm going to press save.
So now as soon I'm going to press the save.
It's going to take a couple of seconds.
And the save has been successfully done.
So now I'm not going to just stop there.
I'm going to do even more on top of it, because now you can see this one right?
The post.
Now I want to announce it right now, because normally people just skip the whole thing and just post
directly in the home thread, and it's never been listed in the profile anymore.
It's just a post.
So our first step is what I'm going to.
I just only listed down in my profile so people can search it and my profile can always visible into
it.
And now on top of it right now, I'm going to announce it in the home thread right now.
So I'm going to do that.
So it's already giving me a format which is showing me a certificate.
So I'm going to press the next.
Is it giving me this this thing showing me achievement all the thing.
So I want to change this thing because I don't like it.
Because the first thing I will do is about, I'm going to edit this image, I'm going to get rid of
that thing, I'm going to add a photo and I'm going to add my certificate into it.
So right now my certificate is already been visible.
Completely.
So now next.
So now this post is great, but there are a few things I want to fix this one.
So I'm happy to share and open a new certificate.
Um, productivity and Time Management for management from the academy.
I think that is a great stuff.
Now, one of the great ways about my top three skills I have gained from this course, and you just
listed down in a bullet .123.
And now you can also write it down one line like an example, let's say example how I'm going to use
this skill right now.
I'm going to utilize this skill set for my upcoming project on on something.
You write it down on that project name, and that's how I give you a really great aspect into it.
You have to learn it.
I've got the skills, I'm going to apply it, and now I'm giving you everyone that, hey, I'm getting
ready, I'm getting there.
And that's exactly what you want to announce in your in your network like LinkedIn.
So now now you're going to do some Facebook hashtag.
That's how you finish this one.
Write down the the the place where you get the certificate.
You write down some productivity is related to the courses you have taken on.
The second one is about relationships.
Example.
Professional development.
Example.
Three hashtag or four hashtag is good.
It shouldn't be more than five, then it's too much.
And then all you need to do is just make the post thing.
So now I'm going to go and hit the post and now my post is live already.
So now people can actually can see my post immediately.
So I'm going to refresh this one.
So now you can see my post is live already and people can find my post into it.
And this is exactly why how I'm going to make the post.
And now I'll show you the beautiful thing.
Go down now here you can see this one right after my my licensing and certification already been added.
My whole credential is up, but you should time that anybody can comment and can click this one show
credentials and immediately will take them to my certificates.
It's a form valid URL.
That means it's a valid certificate and everybody gonna get to know this one.
I'm a guy, I'm learning, and I have the skills.
And anybody who hire me, I can deliver this, this thing for them as well too.
And that's why.
And there is a preview into it all included too, and all the skills have been listed.
And that's exactly how you're going to crush your, your profile a level up.
And so you can get selected for the next promotion.
You get selected, you get the next hiring call you get, and then you drive forward and you become
successful in your professional life because that's exactly what you want, and that's exactly what
you want to do.
So that's the best.
And I'll see you in the next coaching session.

--- Protect Your Reputation: Avoiding Common Traps in Personal Branding ---

You are a professional or you are an entrepreneur or anybody.
You are.
You are in this segment or you are even a student as well too.
So one of the crucial mistakes I am seeing around the people, which actually significantly destroy
their personal brand, even some of the people don't know who they are and some people even know it.
They just don't know how to control it.
So in this video, I'm going to help you to find out the five things which can really destroy your personal
brand so you can actively paying attention by avoiding that one so you have the right personal brand,
because end of the day, your professional or even entrepreneur doesn't matter.
You need to have your personal brand because with that one, people will understand about you, people
will believe you, people will trust on you.
People will listen to you.
So in your professional life, you have to be a manager.
You have to.
People let people work with you.
They need to understand about you.
Sam, if you want to be an entrepreneur, you need to build your teams and personal brand is on the
way.
So let's get started.
What are we waiting for?
Number one mistake.
I'll get back to you, but never get back to you.
There's a big component.
I found a lot of people in life around it.
A lot of people will gonna tell you that I'm going to get back to you, and I'm going to email you.
I'm going to text you, I'm going to phone you.
And they don't.
So that really shows that how disorganized they are.
And and more importantly, when you tell somebody that I'm going to get back to you, I'm going to call
you, I'm going to text you, and then you don't call.
That's a terrible, terrible way of branding yourself.
That means you don't know how to how to present yourself to the person, and your words are valueless.
And as a human, as a gentleman, as a lady or as a professional or an entrepreneur, your words counts
a lot.
And if you don't know how to keep your words, you will have a serious problem in your personal brand.
And people will not trust you, and they completely will avoid you because they will think about you
or just look like a clown.
So I know that probably you don't want it to happen.
So let me help you out.
How you can avoid it.
Use your calendar, use your notebook, or even you can use the phone to put a note into it.
So whenever you make any promise, put it on your calendar, put it in your notebooks, notepads, or
even you have to use a notebook.
Just write it down and make the calls.
And if you are making this mistake, stop right now, it's actually destroying your personality and
personality Hypo-Meeting and then blow it off.
There is a lot of people you see around you.
They're like, yay!
In the meeting, they talk about an idea.
They're very exciting.
They love doing this one.
I'm gonna I'm gonna do this one and then go out of the meeting and then they will say, oh, I'm not
sure I'm gonna do that.
So if you have such kind of impact, you are destroying your personal brand.
Don't get hyped.
If you cannot commit, if you can commit, then you can hype about it.
But if you just if you're not sure about it, don't become hyper about it and make a lot of promises
that I'm going to be part of it.
I'm going to be a project that these ideas are great.
I'm going to do this one.
Let's do it.
And then get get it home.
And you and you say, oh, I cannot do this one.
You cannot commit into it.
So whenever you say yes, you got to learn how to commit into it and you need to find a way.
So one of the things you should always pay attention to is how much bandwidth do you have?
How much spend time you can spend on something which is not inside, um, which is not in your life
right now?
Like an example, if you want to take an extra project, you got to be before going even the meeting,
you should plan that.
How much time do you have to join some extra project or extra initiatives and?
And how much are you going to improve yourself?
How much are you going to reorganize yourself?
Of course you can be always be productive.
That is one of the best way I love doing that one.
But you also need to know that when you say yes, you should come in.
If you don't commit that looks, you're pretty bad about it.
First of all, three there's a lot of people talk, talk, talk, and there is no key takeaway.
So if you're a person like me meeting someone and you talk a lot for like ten minutes, 15 minutes,
but there's no key takeaway you should, your talk is like just like a the storm of war and and there
is no other takeaway.
What is next after that one.
And that's where it becomes a big problem.
It actually very counterproductive for personal brand.
People think about you are like a talkative person, so being a speaker and being talkative is two different
things when you speak a lot, but there is no key takeaway.
People will represent you as a talkative person, but when you speak and then you give a key takeaways,
people will address you as a speaker.
So if you are talkative in this by talking a lot with the key takeaways and just that one, this is
one of the thing just showing your personal brand.
Number four just talker, not listener.
And this is a really big mistake a lot of people are doing.
A lot of people are doing great speaker.
They love speaking.
They're the going and meeting people and keep talking.
They don't let the other people talk to them, they don't listen.
And that's why they they go somewhere really far.
They lose them down and the people doesn't like them.
And people create a distance with them and people don't trust them.
So here's the point.
If you've been speaking too much, that's fine.
Also, focus about listening to if you're speaking something, paying attention to what the other people
are listening to.
Because if you're speaking too much, it's actually destroying your personal brand to you got to listen
to as well to listen.
Make a balance 60, 40, 40, 66, 70, 30 depends.
Find your right percentage and focus on also listening, not just only speaking.
Number five.
This is a quite critical don't take an offer which doesn't make sense to you.
Like an example.
Somebody telling you to do something for free and it's going to cost you for for sacrifice something
really big or something that told you that you got to go up and meet somebody in a tall building, and
you need to wait for four hours and you have to meet the person.
It doesn't make any sense.
So you're not going to be accepting such kind of requests to do it.
So here's the point.
Like an example.
Somebody call you for a job interview and you go in and they're waiting for three hours.
Wasted your three hours.
And then they tell you to come back to the job interview and they tell you that, hey, I'm not sure
we have to reschedule about it.
So these are actions shows that they don't really respect you.
And if you are stick around in such kind of situation, it can destroy your personal brand.
You need to just back off from this kind of situation.
The people who are not putting commitment with you.
If you're putting commitment, they are not putting commitment.
You learn it can happen.
Even a relationship like you're a guy or a girl.
You I mean, you're putting your commitment.
They are not.
So you got to pay attention to that.
Why they are not putting you can talk about it, but if you if you are not even talking about it, just
stand there and try to keep committing yourself only alone.
That will destroy your personal brand too.
So here's my key five key takeaways for you to understand.
To focus.
Because these are the five things can destroy your personal brand, your entrepreneur, or your professional.
You're a doctor.
You're a dentist.
You're an engineer, a pilot, anyone.
Your personal matters about you.
And this is where is probably most crucial about building a personal brand.
And it's building a personal brand is much more complicated and compound and also easy the way you're
going to see it.
So pay attention your personal brand and build a great personal brand because that will will not dictate
your career, but that will be always something to support your career forward to become success.
All the best.

--- Real-Life Leadership Case Study: The Rise of Tesla vs. The Fall of Ford ---

All right.
So now let's dive into to real life case study.
And we're going to talk about two great companies who build world famous cars.
So I want you to pause and think, what are the top two car companies in your mind right now?
Which is really kind of mind boggling.
Right.
You picked up two company, right?
So in this case, are we going to pick up two great companies.
The one is the Ford.
Another one is the Tesla.
And how does the industry 4.0 play completely differently for these two car company.
Even they used to be very successful.
And now one of them is not anymore.
Another one is really rocket following itself.
And the question is about why.
And that why would help us to derive how we position ourselves with the right mindset and skill set
to adopting the leadership 4.0 skill set.
So back and forth and then what they have done well, this one, they ignored electric vehicle opportunities.
They relied heavily on the on the old leadership approaches and slow decision making.
Now they are they're really struggling to compete in the EV market means electric vehicle market and
what leadership methodology they did follow.
They use the traditional leadership approach.
The other side we have Tesla who use leadership 4.0 approaches for themselves from the day one.
So what they really did they use is right now AI powered automation for the manufacturing of the car.
They use data driven updates.
They use over-the-air software updates like an iPhone in a car.
As a result, Tesla right now market value is $900 billion plus.
On the other side, how much is a Ford?
Can you pick up a number?
You pick up 50.
That's the right number.
The market value is just $50 billion.
So it's almost compared 500,000,000,050 billion where it goes.
But Ford used to be the number one company for car making ones.
So what is the lesson do we get.
The lesson is this one leadership 4.0.
Now we create the industry giants and the companies who does not adopt leadership 4.0.
They got left behind.
So now as it executed, what is the three sheet we need to put on for ourselves as a leader so we can
thrive forward and become a successful leader?
Because without that one, anybody will get replaced on the way as well.
So first sheet is about gut feeling to AI and data driven decision.
The second sheet is about from traditional steel to a digital data driven scale to digital leadership
scale.
Third sheet is about from resistance to embracing technology for adopting competitive advantage.
If you get this sheet ready, you are on the right track.
If you're not, not a problem.
Now you have them right now.
So let's rethink.
Reimagine your leadership.
You can try for and be part of the successful company, or take your company to the next level as a
leader.
4.0.

--- Step by Step Guideline to Develop Decision Making ability in the team ---

Back then when there was an industrial age, agricultural age where the leaders and workers, it used
to be called workers, is where people get paid because doing more work.
But in this present era where we're living right now, since the social age we started, we are all
getting paid for making great decisions because we are getting all from university degrees and we are
getting more educational background.
To do one thing is to make better decisions, and since then I'm building my career to become a level
executive, doing the transformation for different billion dollar businesses or building nonprofits
or building Vista Group.
It's all about I realized this one fundamental factor is about the ability to make the decisions is
the key.
So now an executive or leader or manager who wants to get paid, the number one factor is that they
need to have the better ability to make the decisions.
So since then last 2020, I've been training for all the top companies around the world, to the manager's
leader and C-suite level executives about the skill set, about how to make better decisions.
So for this one, I normally use a decision making lab exercise.
I do it, and through this coaching session, I'll be running this session with you, the decision making
lab.
So you will learn how to do it for yourself so you have a better ability to make the decision.
But that's just the first step.
The second step is about the goal is to get other peoples around in your team.
Make a better decision too, and how to do that as a leader, I'm going to show you how to step by step
in guideline, coach you up and I'm going to give you the materials.
So through this coaching session, you will have all the things you need to improve, the ability to
make the better decision for each of the team members as well too.
So it's going to be a very exciting one.
So this is what I would like to start.
After all this experience, the thing I really learned is about decision to shape the future by understanding
and mitigating cognitive biases, leaders can make choices that drive success.
So it's about decision shape the futures.
That's why we want a better, better future.
Because whatever we are right now is going to get better.
And this is what the number one factor in business world.
And we need to understand that there is a cognitive bias on the way.
So we got to handle it properly so we have a better decision into it.
So these are the three things you're going to get as an outcome when you learn the skill sets for yourself
for decision making lab and equip your team member to this is what you're going to expect, an outcome
you're going to get.
The first one, the first one is here.
Improve decision making skills under uncertainty.
We are always having less data and less time, more pressure.
So we got to make better decisions, and, you know, you're gonna have to make that one in a better
way.
Number two, enhance ability to recognize and mitigate cognitive bias, because this bias is the one
making us make wrong decisions.
So I'm going to help you pull out of those cognitive bias and how to do it.
I'm going to show you.
I'm going to give you the tools.
I'm going to give you the skills and the resources.
So you can also train your team so they can get a better outcome too.
Number three, more rational and effective leadership decisions.
So you can make much more effective and correct and accurate information.
You can look into it and you can understand a better way, and you can make better decisions for your
team.
Like I said, these are the three things you're going to outcome.
So you can apply all those things from this course to yourself first.
And then I'm going to give you the right skill set.
I'm going to transfer this skillset to you.
I'm going to give you the right resources, tools, which is going to be in description section and
the resource section of this coaching session.
Download it and you can apply it in your team how to do it.
I'm going to show you step by step as well too.
So before I get into that thing, let's talk about science.
What is the science behind of it?
Why decision making matters so much.
So decision making comes with this.
Research has been done by the Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky.
They have done this research.
And then the key finding is this one leaders tends to make irrational decisions when under pressure.
We constantly under pressure.
I will tell you right now we're going to never have the right resources.
We never have the right decision, right data, we never have the right directions.
We always have more competition than we can handle.
So it's always pressure on us.
But if it could be irrational.
We will be in problem or we will be in an advantage situation.
How?
Right.
So what are the key factors about it.
So let's look into this one first Understanding cognitive bias helps leaders and executives make more
rational choices in high stakes situations.
Because we are often in a high stakes situation, it doesn't matter if it could be in an executive level,
manager level, director level, C-suite level.
We always have high stakes situation in based on the situation.
So it's going to be total.
How do we actually do that right.
So now let's talk about how to do that.
The total to do this one is a total of five step process.
It's not going to be 10 or 15.
It's going to be only five step process to get it done.
And you're probably thinking that how long it's going to take.
It's not going to give it two days of things.
It's not going to be one day.
It's not going to be four hours.
It's just only the one hour session with your team the first.
You're definitely going to do this step for yourself.
And then you're going to get it with with your team with just one hour session will get it done for
you.
How the skill set you need.
I'm transferring the skill set from myself to you and the resources.
All you need is in the description section or the resource section of this coaching session.
Download it and you will be able to do it.
How to do it?
I'm showing you right now.
Stick with me.
So total of five steps.
First leadership dilemma.
Then we have a handle the present.
And step number three is about reflection and and reflections which is a group work.
And then we have step number four.
Key takeaways is an individual work.
And the first one is a post activity.
Group work basically you drive it.
But the do the group will do with you outside the inside the one hour session individually.
But it's actually collaborative work.
So let's let's call it collaborative work rather than group work.
Probably collaborative work makes more sense.
So now let's get into the step number one.
So step number one is about the first is about present real world leadership dilemmas.
So now basically we have the top three challenges we often have in teams.
For you it could be different.
Identify the top three one.
So for me, like an example I'm giving to you is about resource allocation, crisis management and strategic
planning.
This is like a very, very common thing.
So I put it on there for yourself.
Give you something is more on fire and you feel like more important.
Put it on there.
Replace which is the least important on the three things.
So the goal would be like for resource allocation, like deciding how to distribute your limited resources
among different departments or different functions or different tasks.
That's the way you can refer because you could be in different levels.
Number two is a crisis management handling unexpected challenges like sudden budget cuts and team conflicts.
Number three is about strategic planning, making long term decisions with incomplete information.
That's the number three.
So now when you this is the blueprint into it.
So now what are the things we're going to do.
The goal is about you're going to ask the team members to fill up the key challenges to achieve on those
three things, and what is the initial decisions they're going to make?
So just basically not giving them 15 minutes.
Just give them ten minutes to fill it up.
Workout three maybe you can go up to five, but it will take a longer period of time.
But the top three is always good to do, so I prefer to do it top three.
But if you have a more thing you want to do, you could do a separate session.
You could do two sessions like one session with three, another separate session with another three
two.
And you could just just do two for two hour sessions in two weeks.
You can put it on that way and it will work it through.
So ideally it's good to do with top three.
So now you give them three ten minutes to fill this on up.
And then the next step is about as soon as done.
Now you're going to go to the next thing is about step two is about now we're going to go about we're
going to apply some few other aspects.
We're going to connect that initial decision to our present real world situation.
So that's why we have more columns.
The first one is about what are the potential risk and reward for each decisions.
Ask them to fill it up.
Second thing is about what biases might affect your decision.
Ask them to fill it up here as well too.
And the last one is about how can you mitigate these biases?
Ask them to fill it up.
You give them ten more minutes.
So now you totally have consumed 20 minutes so far.
Like I said, we're going to do it in one hour and it will be all done in one hour.
So now we have done it.
And then after ten minutes, now we move to the step number three.
So now what are we going to do is about we're going to introduce the identify the cognitive biases that
may influence their choices.
So first of all each of the problems they have right.
They made a decision one.
Now we ask them hey make decision B.
So the first one let's tag it as a decision number A what if we make the decision A right.
Let's check out decision B and then each of them, what was the thing was being used like an example,
the first one is about loss aversion.
One of the example is about fear of losing something valuable.
There's a loss aversion.
Number two is anchoring.
Anchoring bias relying too heavily on initial information.
It could be another example.
The third one is about how can you mitigate those biases like confirmation bias.
You ask them to fill it up to no need 15 minutes.
I think ideally ten minutes will get the job done for you too.
But yeah, if you if you want to go really on board, you can go up to 15 minutes.
And with this one you have almost consumed around 35 minutes so far.
Right.
So now this is the part is going to be very important.
Now we're going to get into step number four which is our group discussion and reflection.
And this is the why we're going to onboard a key tool called What if.
So the first one is about let's talk about how to work with what if the what did the what if framework
change your initial Your decisions.
Right.
So basically we applied here this what if framework in our conversation.
Right.
It's basically we apply this what if into it right now.
So now what are what.
How did the what if framework change your decision.
Ask them to answer.
So we are trying to find out what are the key learning from it.
So at least two things.
Probably they have changed or maximum two things they have changed.
Let them write it down.
And what is the learning out of it?
The second is what cognitive bias did you identify in your decision making process?
Ask them to write it down.
And what is the key learning out of it?
And how can you apply these insights to real life decision leadership decisions?
Ask them to write it down and ask them what are the key learning and all the things you ask them to
share in the group settings to the all team members and then you.
The best way to do this on a common document.
The key insights you shared Board or documents.
So you can share it, and you can use it as a resource for the next session into it too.
So let's say 15 minutes, or ask them to write it down in just 5 minutes or 7 minutes.
And then next ten minutes you can fill it up.
So until now we have burned like around around 50 minutes, right.
So you can get another five minutes because I like to keep it around ten minutes for as a buffer.
So you can use that one to to to get them to more sharing.
But the goal is to if you could do this on a shared document for all of it, it would be really valuable
decision because you can actually use it for the next session as well.
So now there are a few things I want to talk about.
Strategies to mitigate the cognitive biases.
The first strategy is about pause and then reflect.
I've seen so many leader executives way too fast react.
And the fast reaction.
It's a it's a big issue.
Like an example.
Our brain has a two type of machine one.
It's like instant reply.
It's like a fast thinking.
And another we have a slow thinking.
So when you talk about making a making a better decision, we often need to rely on our slow thinking
because it's going to be more analytical.
It's going to find a better way to.
So pause and reflect, to take a moment to assess whether the bias and influencing your decisions.
That's a good strategy.
The second one is about seek diverse perspective, not just get one perspective and stick with that.
Try to get more perspective out of it and see what is the best thing.
Involve others with different viewpoints to reduce confirmation bias.
So that's the number two strategy.
Number three is about use data driven insights.
If you could have the wonderful get all the data look into it.
And that can help on this matter too.
So that's why the bias decisions on the on the objective data rather than assumptions.
I mean, that's why we talked about people who doesn't have the data is guys just with a bunch of assumptions.
So which is good to have a data.
And sometimes we don't have it.
If you have the data look into it and use that one too.
So now key takeaways I want to talk about.
So before I do key takeaways I want to talk about three different factors which I want you to read this
exercise after you finish this one with your team.
The first one is about recognizing bias leads to more rational decision making.
How much they have really understood from your sharing their one session with your team.
Read it from 0 to 10.
Zero means they have not got it yet.
Ten means they have got it really well.
Put the number into that one.
Next is about the What-if framework helps leaders evaluate potential outcomes more effectively.
How much they got?
Ask them to read.
You can even ask them to read and you can read them too.
0 to 10.
Zero means they haven't got it yet.
Ten since they got it really well.
The last one is about mitigating the cognitive biases, reduce risk and improve leadership performance.
Ask them how much they got it.
Zero means they have not got it at all.
The ten means they have got it really well.
Put it on.
If the whole score, your score and the team giving score is less than ten, it's time for you to redo
the session with your team in next week.
Ideally, it's the best thing.
If the score is between 10 to 15, you can do the session after two weeks or three weeks later and it
will be useful.
But if the score is more than 15, that means it's okay to do the next session in a month later.
So ideally, I highly recommend you don't do this one for once in a year.
That will not work.
It needs to be done every month or every twice a month.
It can be highly effective.
And here is the best part.
Every time when you do this thing, get a shared documents and then send it to them at least three days
before the next sessions so they can take a look into it.
I know this is something the service leadership have come to is so useful into it, because the more
you send it out over, communication is such an important factor of every leader.
So you got to overcommunicate so the team can really get it and they can really utilize it as well too.
One more time, take a look and they can come to the sessions to you.
Well more prepare to.
So there is a few other things I want to talk about.
It's about now let's talk about some plan actions right.
So what are the plan actions you want to do.
So as a leader, it is time for you to plan some action.
If you want to get your team involved with this one, it's good to do it, but sometimes they're often
not really excited about it.
They like to walk away.
So when you go through these things, you should decide some key actions.
What are you going to do in the next week?
Not next week.
Next week.
Top two actions you're going to do.
Are you going to do a one on one coaching sessions?
You have seen some of the team members do not get that well or somebody have done really well.
You ask the person to share to the other person.
Decide those actions from each of those three things, put it on there and then you execute them in
the next week period of time.
If something you get a better result, execute in the following week.
If you and that's the way you're going to get better.
And then the next session is coming on around two.
And that's where you can create an environment to your team where you're not the only one making the
decisions.
The whole team is making the decision, and they're making good decisions, and sometimes they're making
as good as you and even better.
And that's exactly what you want to do.
As an advanced leader of leadership 4.0 in this present era.
Because if you are only making the decisions, you often become the bottleneck of your team.
And you don't want to be that person.
You want to make the whole team to become your ally, to make great decisions.
And this thing is going to help you do this one.
And if you're taking this session as an executive, you're not a leader.
You don't have a team.
Use this one to yourself, and you can make a better decision, and you'll be a great asset for your
team.
Your performance will be noticed by your leaders and they will promote you.
They will equip you, and they will encourage you, and they will move to the next level.
If they don't, there will be another company will come and offer you a better role because they will
want somebody like you who has a great leadership and decision making skill set.
And through these sessions I have just transferred you the skill sets.
How to do this one for yourself and for your team.
If something is missed out, watch it again.
Rewatch it again two times.
Three times.
You have this session with you, right?
And all the resources you need is in the description section and the resource section of this coaching
session.
Download it and use it, and you will see the magic that you can create for your work.
And you can able to create a breakthrough effect for you, for your team, for your company, and for
yourself as a carrier as well too.
And I just cannot wait to give you the biggest clap in the room, because you have done it and you are
going to do it.
So with this one, let's wrap up the session and I will see you in the next coaching session.

--- Strategic Prioritization: Unlocking Your Team's Potential for Outstanding Result ---

In this video, I'm going to give you a total of seven tips, which can really help you to have the
ability to get the most important thing done in a day.
But not only that, you can also continuously.
By using these tips continuously, you can get better to significantly improve your getting things most
important thing done to you on that, right?
So let's get started.
What is the number one thing?
So so you got to probably have a lot of things to do.
I mean you probably have to start with going out, going to the supermarket, buying a lunch or meeting
a friend to to talk to a developer, or you talk to your direct report or looking at checking your email,
looking at all to find out what is the most important task.
And this is the way I like to do it.
The most important task is the one.
If you do this one, it will create an 80% valuable thing will be done, or at least 60% will be done.
I mean, your achievement of that day.
Don't think about how many you are doing.
I mean, what is the result of the day?
How much outcome of the day will depend on that day?
So nobody is called Pareto rule.
You always have 20% thing if you create 80% value on that day.
So pick that 20% and then choose 1 or 2, whatever you are.
And then you're going to focus on that one to get it done.
So this is the way.
First, you pick that most important task carefully based on that one which will create the most amount
of sass or value, something will be done.
Like an example, if you're a sales expert, think about what are the things that are going to help
you out to get the most to get yourself started on that day?
Or if you're an IT manager looking at what are the particular actions you need to do which will make
sure that your IT system are doing good on the day.
If you're a project manager, you want to think about what are the particular tasks you exactly will
get you done.
Most of your Get success.
Make sure that the project is on track right?
So pick that one.
Number two focus.
Focus on that thing.
So this is that thing how what is the main focus.
The best way to focus this one is about normally it's called three hour rules two hour is minimum.
Maximum is four hour.
Based on the size of your task of that day.
Book your 2 to 4 hours on that particular day, and that's the time you're going to book it down in
your calendar and you never going to do anything else except something like emergency, when you have
to be separate yourself from any other thing.
Let's say checking out the email, looking at the social media, looking at the kids or or if you are
going for a lunch, this small meal, it's good.
It's the best way of doing this one is when you focus that 2 or 4 hours, even get a water bottle next
to it.
I love doing that one.
So when I start doing the most important thing, I get my water bottle, even get some of my snacks.
But I don't put it in my table because I don't want to eat and work at the same time.
I can only put it a bit far, so when I eat, I feel hungry and just quickly get put in my mouth and
keep working.
One other thing I do on this one is about I use chewing gum.
That really helped me to focus for you.
It could be distracting or could be useful.
You can try and see it out.
So focus on getting chewing gum.
Really get me focused about how what I'm doing really, and put it on the calendar and put that hour.
Do not look at the messenger.
Do not look at the other people.
Like if somebody called you up, maybe you can leave it on.
So one of the good thing you can also do is about risk.
If you're in an office, you have a big team or other people coming into it.
You can keep working, and you tell the team that, hey, I'm going to focus on something really important
now from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. or 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. what?
You can book them, you can tell the team, hey, I'm going to be really focused on two hours, so I'm
not going to reply to email.
But if you see something really on fire, come and talk to me.
Or if you're working from home and you only check the phone that if somebody's calling you, it's not
calling you.
It's a text message, meaning that person can actually wait.
Most of the time we human being things at work often think are more important than what it is when it
comes to text messages.
So just align on that one and get that two for two hours.
Number three, do your that.
Focus 2 hours to 4 hours.
When you have the high energy it depends on you.
Different people have different level of energy levels.
Some people can very focus in the morning.
Some people can be very focused after lunch.
Some people can be very focused in the evening.
Some people can be very focused in the very early morning, like 6 a.m. to 8 a.m., or someone would
like to wake up at really early.
So some people are very productive in the whole morning and they like to get going.
When it comes to lunch and then they get going.
So pick up your best energetic time when you have the most amount of energy, and you do that on that.
So book that slot for creating in your calendar to do that one.
So that will get you the best impact of that best energy to get the most important thing done.
And that can help you out amazingly to get your most important thing done.
Number four, focus a lot more on the process and the result will follow.
So this is the way, like if you're doing a series of the projects like you have to do a continuous
activity to to get some goals, then you probably in one day one big thing, you will not be done.
So you got to think about process, how you can actually optimize every day, how you can do the things
in a better way, how you can solve the problem in every possible steps.
So ultimately create the result.
But however, you still need to remember you need to.
There is a result and what is the result you are looking for and everything you're doing is for the
result.
So do not ignore the importance of having the result too.
But you got to focus about the process, how you document it, how you talk to other people, how you
put the notes into it.
Like an example, how many calls you are making, let's say, about giving an example.
If you're a sales expert, how many calls do you make?
How many emails did you make?
How many appointments did you make a day tracking that process?
If you are a project manager, think about it.
How many, how many tasks have you completed and how the task has been communicated to other people?
What is the impact of each of the tasks?
What is the.
If you miss any particular task, what will be the impact of the overall timeline of the project?
So the project always have the index right?
Without an index, it's not a project, it's an operation activities, right.
So that's the way you remember there is a result, but you need to optimize your process in every possible
way.
If you're doing the same thing twice the second time, you should be thinking about how you improve
the process rather than just doing the same way you are doing.
Number five avoid distraction.
So this is the thing I already was giving you the tips in earlier thing.
Just focus on that one.
Don't do anything else.
Don't pick up anything.
Phone call except anything else.
But however, if you're sitting in the team, you can tell them that, hey guys, I'm going to focus
on two hours on a particular task.
If something super important only come and talk to me, I'll be fine.
In the same way, if you are at working from home, only pick up the phone call.
Do not look at the messenger.
If there is a work chat there or any any messenger app which is for you or slack you're using, don't
look into it.
Look into it when you are done, and then you can work on that one too.
Because if you're working on that one and you open the messenger and then you will be working for a
while and then you have to ship back.
So this is a mental shift from here to here.
And that is actually not great because multitasking is a lie, because it actually you can do only one
thing at a time.
And when you moving out your multiple focus from one place to another places, it actually costs you
more time to refocus on things and get up to the speed of what you're really going.
And more importantly, sometimes even you lose some of the important idea.
Number six keep your long term goals important, but don't prioritize in every possible that you also
need to focus on what is today is also very important.
What is today?
What is next week?
What is next month?
What is the next quarter and then this next year.
So if you're not focusing today, you won't be able to meet the goals for the next week.
If you don't focus on the next this week, you will not be able to focus the goal for this month.
If you're not focusing this month, you're not going to focus to the next quarter.
So this is like a domino effect, right?
So if you and if you just reverse engineering, if you had a plan but focus today get things done today.
So tomorrow you can do tomorrow will be better too.
And when you do every day like this week is successful.
The week is successful means it's the 25% of the month is successful.
So that's why you got to focus about now and every day.
And the last thing is about it's just a tip number seven.
So in this part you got to focus about your reflection of your particular things.
When you particular day you failed.
There will be days you will fail.
I even I sometimes I could not do the thing because sometimes I get just distracted by because of so
much important thing, or sometimes I not in the up to the right speed to it can happen because we're
human, right?
We're not a robot so we can skip doing the things have to be done.
Sometimes I just probably have a health issue.
Even.
I hate to be sad.
Sick, but you could be sick, too.
There's a lot of flu around there.
Probably you can just get a viral fever, or you could get any kind of health issue.
So get your immune system strong to avoid this one.
But however, there will be moments when you're going to fail.
But then it's a time for reflection, time to think about what exactly makes you fail, and then you
find the cause of the failure, not the failure.
Why the cause?
What caused you the failure?
And we have to eliminate that.
So the next day, those same factors will not make you fail to create or the result you're looking for.
Here you go.
I gave you a total of seven tips to focus on your most important thing done every day.
And if you keep doing it every day, you will be super successful.

--- Strategies for Building Digital present to express your personal Brand ---

You are a professional, and now you want to build your digital presence through a YouTube channel.
Or you want to build an Instagram and you want you want to let other people know what you really do
and what you want to share about your expertise and so on.
You want to do that, right?
So then this is the video for you to watch.
Let's get started.
Do you want to build your own digital presence?
You can pick up any part of your channel or a couple of channels.
You can pick Instagram.
You can pick a YouTube channel.
So how do you build a channel to build a channel?
What is really important is about your content.
Whatever it is, there's a lot of YouTubers who will always tell them you have to do a lot of searching,
you know, optimization, keyword, blah, blah, a lot of things.
But end of the day, it's not doesn't matter to you.
The only thing matters to you is actually the content you put and the content where you can give the
content.
So when there is a lot of YouTube channels that you somebody's trying to get people trying to look around
to see what other people are talking around, trying to catch the ideas from there and there.
It's not that you are a professional, right?
You are pro.
You are not a YouTuber.
YouTuber doesn't have any expertise or experience in their life.
All they the dude that just find that content from the internet search on watching other people's videos.
You are not that person because you are genuine.
You are professional.
You got your own experience and your own mindset and your own stories to tell about it.
And that's exactly I'm going to tell you when you want to build a YouTube channel focused about on yourself.
It's not about outside doing what.
What kind of content I can do.
It's about you.
All the stories is inside of you, all the stories inside of you already, and you're going to tell
about your own stories.
So how to create those stories, right.
So when you want to talk about the stories, I'm going to give you another tips which stories you should
really focus about.
The three things you can focus about.
Number one, talk about your success.
This is number one.
Anything you have achieved so far in your career on your life, talk about this one.
Number two, talk about your failure.
The things you did not make it up in your life.
Something you failed, something you have to talk about that as well.
Two and three is talk about who you are right now.
What are you really doing at this time?
You really need to talk about it.
If you're if you're selling something or if you're building a product or if you're talking about, in
particular a business or you're a professional in corporate, talk about it.
So these are the three things.
So let me give you more examples.
Okay.
So how do you can talk about this.
So let's say about me the first of all I'm a CIO.
I talk about I'm a chief information officer.
So I'm so I talk about this life.
I talk about the transformation work I do.
I'm a chief transformation officer.
I did the transformation for $2 billion businesses, one for a global university and RMIT in transformation
for another billion of business, which is 16 hospitals and six clinics.
So those are the story I'm talking about.
So what else I can do?
I'm talking about technology and technology.
Interesting.
I'm a technology enthusiastic.
I'm a founder of a non-profit organization.
I founded a nonprofit organization.
Now it's been grown to 350 people.
So I talk about it.
So what else I can do with this one.
I'm also about a president of this non-profit organization as well too.
So the nonprofit organization now grow to 350 people.
The organization name is Fisher.
So this is this is the story I talked about.
I'm a tech researcher.
I love doing research.
I got like 11 publications.
And then I got a PhD offer to to do a PhD for four universities at the same time.
And now I'm a social researcher.
I did the research social research for four years.
And outcome of the social research now is the nonprofit organization with Fisher.
I love traveling.
I can talk about the tropics.
I love coffee every morning.
I need the perfect coffee.
Otherwise my day goes really bad.
I'm a coffee, enthusiastic, and I love trying great coffees.
So I talk about this one to some teachers.
I love helping people to learn new skills so they can become successful.
I'm a speaker.
Oh yes, I've been speaking almost all and all the top conferences about health and education in Southeast
Asia.
So I'm scattered.
Teacher.
I teach kids for free who are underprivileged or low income people.
I'm an Asian.
You can see my skin.
screen, right?
So I love sharing other people so they can can learn from my mistakes.
Many mistakes I make.
So that is what I love sharing.
I'm a sharer.
So you can look at this video, what I'm doing right I'm sharing my my experience.
So you being a professionals can learn those approach where to get your right stories so you can share
with this one because you have to build your own story.
So what else have you got?
Yeah, I'm a chairman of an academy as well too.
I'm a digital oh yes, I'm a digital transformation.
So I'm a Carol about this juice of transformation in Southeast Asia.
I'm Carol of healthcare 4.0in Southeast Asia.
I'm for education 4.0 as well.
So like this.
There's so many stories.
These are my stories I don't need to copy anywhere.
So let's say about these are the things I do about it.
So if you're trying to trying to get a story from other people from internet or some some other places,
you're going to look like you are like a fake gurus, what are the fake gurus?
does somebody never did a digital transformation work in their own life and now they're opening.
Teaching other people through an online courses how to do digital transformation.
That's absolutely BS.
The same time somebody never did an HR work in a company, but now they want to be an HR consultant
for another company.
That's another place.
Those are fake things.
So don't get into those fake situations because they are so much and they are so great at content marketing.
I mean, they are not 100%.
They are actually small, actually.
But the way they do the great content marketing that make you feel like they are everywhere.
So don't try to be like them.
You have to be authentic.
You got to have your own story and you have it, man, because you are a professional and you have done
something, even you are 25 years old, you have a story to tell.
Maybe you are a mother already.
Talk about that monster.
Maybe you're a brother already.
Talk about the story.
How did you get your first job?
How did you prepare for your first job interview in your career?
What makes you a manager in the first time?
Talk about this one and let's see if you are over 30.
Talk about how do you get promoted from senior managers to junior manager or junior manager?
Senior manager.
How do you become from junior senior manager to senior manager?
How do you get your job interview about your director?
If you are a founder, you have your nonprofit organization talk about this one too as well.
So you got your own story all inside of you, right?
All inside of you.
Don't grab.
Maybe you are a great father.
Maybe you are.
You are a great brother.
Talk about this one.
What makes you a great brother?
Put all those things and you don't need to have a superlative camera, right?
You don't need to have, like, a super HD professional camera.
All you need is get a proper smartphone and ensure that you got.
You got this thing.
You got this thing already in your pocket.
Probably have it.
And this one already.
Any any, any smartphone right now has a pretty strong camera that can do some great shooting for you.
Put it on in front of you and just say it.
And then you can put it on in any platform in Facebook.
You can put it on, you can put it on Instagram or you can put it on YouTube.
Doesn't matter.
You want to build your personal brand through by sharing, giving value.
When you want to build your personal digital presence, the first thing you need to focus about giving
value.
Giving value.
Because if you don't give values through your sharing originally being authentic about it, you're never
gonna be able to build your own digital presence.
So that's why.
Be authentic.
Bring your own story of your own life.
Shoot it with a very first time with a camera.
And if you're more comfortable in Facebook, start on Facebook.
That's fine.
Put it on Facebook.
You got a personal profile, you can create another page and you can start putting into it.
And then day by day, it's going to grow up.
By the way, don't think about that.
You're going to get a 1001 million subscriber or follower in your page in 1 or 2 months at a time.
That's impossible.
That's that's unrealistic and nonsense expectation.
So don't put that on thing.
Focus on giving values and focus about being authentic and that will make you to to the problem.
All right.
So this is the mightiest for you.
You are professionals.
This is the way you can easily build up your personal branding or digital presence for yourself so other
people will know it too.
By the way, this is the thing I always follow up myself.
Anything in digital space I do, I like to give it for free.
I don't like to take anything off.
I like to give it to people because I want to help them.
Your purpose could be very different.
You could monetize it or you can ask for something in return.
It's up to you.
You can build your own strategy about this.
And for myself, being a professional, I put all those sharing things because I want to help other
people.
So anything I know, I can give it to them so they can get value out of it and can use it for their
life and get better.
And together we can be living in a better place.
That's why I do this one.
So, professionals, you got the tips.
Now you got this.
So now all you need to do is the camera, shoot it and start posting.

--- Strategy, tools and guide to boost growth mindset inside the team as leader ---

One of the fundamental reasons I was getting highly promoted really fast is about this growth mindset.
So let me just tell you that I become a manager at age of 23in a foreign country.
I became a senior manager at age of 25, in a foreign country of almost $1 billion business.
And then I become a head of the department or director at the age of 29 for almost multi-billion dollar
businesses.
So all these things were happening because I have been continuously using one thing for myself as a
growth mindset.
And then I was cultivating that to my team.
And that's exactly why when I was even doing this career path, I was doing all the transformation for
different billion dollar businesses, becoming a chief information officer.
And, you know, even building my a nonprofit building, my sister group to all this aspect to is about
it's when I was only growing myself, I was only building the skill set for myself as a growth mindset
and reflections.
But the ultimate magic start to happen.
When I started to train my team on growth mindset and onboard them with me to.
And that is the game changer into it.
Because since then, last 2020, I've been training all the top companies all over the world about their
leaders, about growth mindset reflections, and they are been using this skill set for themselves and
for their team to create a breakthrough effect for their team, for their career, for the company.
And that's why it's so valuable to have this.
And that's exactly why, through this session, I'm going to share with you the skill set of growth
mindset.
So you can use this one, embrace it and become a highly effective leader who can create a breakthrough
effect for your team, for your for department, for your company, or even even for your own career
as well too.
So after doing all those things, there's one key realization of about this.
So this is my key realization of this one after going through all the journey.
The failure is not the opposite of success.
It's the part of the journey toward it.
The leader grows by embracing failures and turning them into a valuable lesson.
Over and over there is the one thing I was doing is like, learn, apply, get a response and get better.
And that is what I was developing my career into it and and creating all the breakthrough effect or
all the transformation I was driving.
And I'll be sharing with you on this one.
So from this coaching session, these are the things you're going to create.
This is the thing you can expect, an outcome you can create for your team or for yourself.
The first develop a resilience and can bounce back stronger from setbacks.
This business world is a lot of challenges, a lot of talented people, and there will be moments.
There's a lot of failure will become.
But the goal is about how fast we can bounce back into that 1 or 2.
to.
And this coaching session will help you out.
So how fast you can bounce back for yourself and also bounce back your team as well too.
So get to the next fight.
Number two participants of this coaching session will build an adaptability to navigate the fast changing
environment.
We live in a very fast changing environment.
We are a very fast transforming world.
Sometimes we feel like, whoa, how do we do that?
But you will learn how to adapt that fast changing environment from this coaching session.
And the third thing is about foster a continuous learning mindset that will enhance both the personal
and the training growth.
And here's the beautiful thing I want to talk about everything I'm going to share with you this coaching
session.
I'm going to coach you to get all of this thing ready for yourself.
And then this is a beautiful part.
I'm just not only just coaching you, but I'm going to give you the transferring of all the relative
skill set so you can actually apply this skill set and coach your team up on their building their growth
mindset as well too, and all related the resources you need to do that.
I'm going to give it to you and it's already in the resource section and the description section of
this coaching session.
So grab it and you will be able to use it.
How to use it I'm going to step by step so you can actually get it.
And you can apply it for your teams.
And you can make this ripple breakthrough effect for your team and take the company forward to more
and more bigger success.
But before getting to that one, let's talk about what is the science behind of it.
Because I'm a scientist, I studied computer science and engineering.
So I really look at the science as well.
So I'm going to talk about this science.
This research came out from Stanford University from from Professor Carroll.
So this is a key finding about this one.
The leaders and executive with growth mindsets are most likely to succeed in dynamic and uncertain environment.
Dynamic environment.
What is the environment look like.
That's the environment you're in right now.
That's the environment I'm in.
We're all in right now.
Number two uncertainty.
Environment.
What is the environment.
That's your environment you're in right now I'm in that environment as well too.
So that's why it's so much important to having this growth mindset is so much.
Let me just bold it out to you so that you will stand out in your eye.
And then this is the real world impact.
Embracing failure as a learning.
Opportunities lead to increased resilience and adaptability.
Because we are such a challenging environments, we need to get a better way to be resilient on that
problem and adapt with that problem too.
And that's why the growth mindset is so crucial.
And you're going to get it.
You're going to really be able to significantly increase your growth mindset.
And I'm going to give you the process so you can continuously you can run it through and you can level
up yourself.
Because this is not a you never jump from one step to 100 stair.
You want it to 2 to 3.
And I'll show you how to do that loop cycle for yourself too.
And not only that, you will be doing it for your whole team.
So now let's talk about the steps.
So these are the four steps of each of the loop.
Each of the cycle.
You just need to implement these four steps.
So first of all you can do it for yourself.
First step from this coaching session.
And then like I said I'm going to give it to you for all the skills that you need.
I'm transferring this, my skill set to you from this coaching session.
So you'll be able to run this four step to your team and all the resources you need in the description
section and the resource section of the coaching session.
You download it and you run it through, and you're just not going to run it for one time.
You run it for every month or you can run it in every two months.
How to do it, when to do it, how to execute each of the steps I'm going to show you right now in this
coaching session.
So you can end of the session.
You're going to get all of it.
So like I said it's only four steps.
First one recent failure.
We're going to start with that one.
It's an individual work.
Number two share reflections.
That's a group work.
Step number three reflection and refinement.
That's individual work.
And four is about post activity which is about group work how to do it.
Don't worry.
Just be with me I'm going to show you step by step.
I'll give you the templates, tools, everything to you.
Like I said, it's in the resources section.
You can download it and you can run.
But right now be with me.
I'm going to I'm going to transfer this skill to you right now.
So you can level up yourself by utilizing this growth mindset reflection exercise to you.
There's so many leaders got it from me, from the top companies around the world, and now it's time
for you to get it right now.
So let's start.
Step number one.
The step number one is about reflect on your present failure.
So now it's basically it's going to take 15 minutes.
All you need to do when you do it for yourself you can just fill up for yourself.
But when you're doing it for your team, bring your team to a meeting room and it's going to take only
one hour.
I just want to tell you right now to do all the four steps for all the team members.
You don't need two days workshop.
Don't need a one day workshop.
Don't need four hours.
Just one hour session is enough.
How to run it?
I'm showing you right now.
So bring the team to a meeting rooms.
And this is what you do.
Reflect on a recent failure.
Always.
There is a failure.
If, say, we have no failure, they are giving you BS or they don't want to talk about it.
They always have a failure.
So think about a recent failure they have experienced and it can be a real a real work related challenges
or personal setback to you.
If they are really shy, probably the first sessions, many of them will be shy.
So let them ask for personal setback.
But the following session future session, you can tell them all about rock related to when they build
a trust with you and be more comfortable to do it.
I put down four columns, but you can start with 2 or 3 is okay.
So now after that, how can I improve based on this experience?
Let them write it down.
The third thing is thing is about what did I learn from this failure?
I asked him to write it down.
The third thing is about how will I apply this learning in future situation?
As in right now, we don't need to give them actually 15 minutes, 15 minutes, a lot of time.
You just give them only ten minutes.
The first ten minutes each of the team member is an individual sessions.
It's done right.
And then we're going to move to the step number two.
And this is why it's come to the paired up and share reflection.
So now what do you do is about pair each of the team member with another team member.
So two team member and one pair.
So if you have a ten team member it's a five pair.
If you have a four will be two pairs.
And then the next step is about each participant to take turns to share their reflections from step
number one.
Would they have put it down and then discuss what they have learned and how they plan to improve?
So after each of the pair share their their the learning from this one, give feedback, X provides
support and encouragement from each other.
Okay, that is a great feedback.
I learned from that one too.
So it's going to be a good coaching session.
So everybody needs to listen from each of the failures and what they have learned.
And they can take it on from out of it.
And that's an amazing thing.
So normally it will take you around 15 minutes because you may have five teams or maybe have three teams.
Roughly 15 minutes.
Normally each team you give them two minutes, 2 minutes to 3 minutes is enough.
So it's going to be blunt and straight to the point.
And now the step three.
Step two is done.
Now it's time for step number three.
So reflect on the recent failure.
So now let's talk about why is the failure valuable part of the learning process.
Because we want to encourage them to figure out why it's so much valuable for them.
Now each of the team member need to fill it out for themselves after having the step number two.
And then the second question about what mindset shifts are needed to embrace the the failure as an opportunity
of growth.
Ask them to fill it up.
The third one is about how can a leader create a culture that encourages learning from mistakes?
Ask them to fill it up.
If you're doing it for yourself, you can fill it up right now.
And how can I apply this learning in future situations?
Ask them to fill it up too.
So now you just give them ten minutes to fill it up, and then you basically ask them to share it back
to the whole team one by one.
And you can have someone to capture the key insight and a shared board or a document so you can utilize
it moving forward, because that document will become an asset, a guideline book for yourself.
So do the little extra work.
Get someone in your team to be volunteer or if you want to volunteer yourself, you do it.
You do.
Normally, I volunteer most of the time because I like to help the team.
So you could do it, or you can get someone to do it in your team member to capture all of it.
Make a board and then share with the whole team right after the the sessions.
So they have that artifact into it, and then you can refer back, and then you can also utilize that
one to in the following session to because it's not only one session, you're not going to do it, you're
going to do it.
Many of them after that.
Now typically and everyone wakes too much every one months.
That will be the goal.
So now when it's been done, then you move to the the power of the growth mindset I want to talk about
because everybody needs to know about this growth mindset and the fixed mindset.
The fixed mindset believes the ability are static and we cannot change them.
But the growth mindset, think about that believes that abilities can be developed through effort and
learning.
Resilience means bouncing back stronger on every setbacks.
Adaptability means adjusting to change and finding solutions.
That's the huge difference into it.
So each of the team member must know the difference between the fixed mindset and growth mindset.
And that's the only thing you need to communicate.
Don't go for too much.
People will skip it out.
Tell them to at to at least remember this thing.
And now I want to give you the strategies to foster a growth mindset too.
So this is going to be your tips for the thing.
So the first tip is about embrace challenges.
See challenges as opportunities to grow.
Don't see it as a fair or somebody to to drop out or something going to be embarrassing thing.
Embrace that challenge.
Number two learn from feedbacks.
See feedback to improve.
Not a criticism.
And that's one of the reasons each of the team member and leader must know how to do feedback properly.
If you're not really sure how the feedback is done properly or not.
Check it out.
The leadership 4.0 in Udemy.
I made a course about it, and there is a session already I've created on how to prepare a better feedback.
I had to coach you through out how to take the feedback, how to process feedback, and how to train
people to take the feedback properly too.
I made a detailed coaching session there.
I want to take it.
I want to.
And if you're already taking that one, means you've already gone through into this module.
All right.
The third thing is about celebrate effort.
So this is about recognize the process, not just the outcome.
Because the process matters.
Because if you don't recognize the process and don't celebrate the the steps forward and progress,
people don't want to follow the process anymore.
Then process becomes a boring thing and then an outcome will fall short too as well too.
So that's why celebrate the effort is very important.
And the fourth thing is about reframe the failure.
Treat failure as a learning experience, not just an obstacle of success.
So now the next thing is about is time for crafting your growth mindset.
Key takeaways.
It's time for you to read your session.
Be radically open and and ask all the team members to rate the sessions to own these three criteria.
First, a growth mindset helps you to navigate uncertainty and change how much they have understood
this thing.
In a scale of 0 to 10.
Zero means they know nothing.
They don't understand nothing.
The ten means they have got it.
So well ask them to read it and then average score.
Put it on there.
You just type it back here.
The second thing is about reflecting on failure promotes resilience and adaptability.
Ask them how much they have got this factor from this coaching session 0 to 10.
Zero means they have not got anything.
Ten means they have got it extremely well.
And the third thing is about encouraging a learning culture.
Drive continuous improvement.
Ask them to rate this session to see how much they have got it.
And zero means they have understood nothing.
Ten means they have understood everything.
So now let's say, for example, you got points like five, five, five.
If the score is a total score of these three is less than ten means you got to run this one in next
week again because they have not gotten enough about this one.
It's not your fault.
It's just they are not ready.
They need more help.
That's basically it.
So just do the work.
Do the session exactly the same session one more time in the next week.
So they will get that one too.
If the score between 10 to 15 do it in the next month is fine.
If the score between more than 15, you can.
Ideally, you should do it in the next one month.
The same session, exactly the same rules.
And you could do it after two months too, because it will not really make you really hard about it.
I know that there's a lot of priorities you have in your table, so you can go on for two months, and
this is already going to help you out.
How and when you should do it.
That's why it's so much important how to do it.
Just ask them openly ask them to how much they have got it.
Ask them to score it.
If they are not, if you have a shy team, ask them to write it down in a piece of paper and give it
to you.
Back the score.
And then you can just look into all the score and you can put it on the board and announce it.
What is the total score into it?
So this is a very easy way to do it.
So now this is the thing going to be your work.
Step number four.
It's going to be your work because you are the leader or you are an executive.
You want to be a leader too.
So that's why the first thing is about the growth mindset help leader navigate uncertainty and change.
What is the plan action you're going to do after the sessions for yourself?
For your team?
You can ask to each of the team member to plan their actions.
And you plan your own actions too.
And then you can ask them to send it back to you in the email after the sessions.
Do you get them 24 hours?
They plan the action and send it back to you again.
Take a look into it.
Do the same for you.
Reflecting on focus promotions, ask them to design the actions and send it back to you.
So basically this is the five step is about you're going to do it after the session, not in the session
because I want to finish this 1 in 1 period of time.
Don't want to make it a super long session too, and ask them to plan it and send it back to you in
the email.
And then you can take a take a look.
It can give feedback.
And then you follow through.
And basically in the next session you ask them back.
They have done each of them or not.
What is the status of the thing you can hold them accountable as well to.
And why do you do that?
Because you are the leader or you want to be a leader because this is called a leadership 4.0, where
you create a breakthrough result for your team, for your department, for your company.
And that's what your business is looking for because you are hired for that.
Or if you are a founder, this is what you need to create through your team.
Because how long you you if you are having a great growth mindset, you can do only so much.
My key success comes to my career or building my becoming CEO level executives or building my my group
is all because of this thing.
I built my growth mindset and I cultivate it on my team member to and coach them up to and through this
session, I have given you the skills.
I have transferred it to you.
I already giving you the all the resources templates in the description section In the resource section,
get it download and get it ready to run it in next week or even this week.
And you will see a remarkable changes in your team and you will see much more better outcome you can
create.
Without any doubt, your team will be more progressive.
You will be able to create better results.
You will be more highly recognized in your organizations.
You will be great promoted and you can create great results in the organization too.
So for me, I just can't wait to give you the biggest climb in the room because you're going to make
it happen right now and I want to see you.
You're doing that.
Want to.
And with this one, I'm wrapping up this coaching session and I will see you in the next one.
Cheers.

--- The Art of Initiation: How to Launch Meetings that Drive Results ---

So in this video, I'm going to give you seven tips that will really help you to start a great momentum
of the meeting.
In the earlier part, if I'm going to focus more about before the meeting and how you start that level
so you have the great momentum moving forward for you great successful meeting journey.
You want that, right?
So let's get started.
Number one, make an agenda.
You cannot believe that.
How many meetings I have been to in my life, in my career I mean there is no agenda.
People just send out an invitation to emails and calling for meetings and just sometimes they just put
a highlight, putting in a subject which is not even clear to know.
So I have to ask back, what is the meeting about?
What are you going to think you're going to do?
Like a marketing strategies?
Marketing strategies with a title is not a meeting agenda.
You need to think about more what kind of marketing strategy you are developing.
There should be a status quo.
What is the problem?
Is for facing company or the team.
And that's where you're calling for the, um, marketing strategy meeting, who are joining in that
meeting, and what are the topics you're going to go through?
What are the problems we're trying to solve?
Highlight this one.
So number one, you have to send out a great meeting agenda, which is clear.
It doesn't need to be an amazing template.
It could be just write down email in a bullet and you can send it out.
And that will make a lot of people understand the importance of the meeting.
So number two, send a um, invitations with an agenda.
So one of the great ways about don't just only email first and say that we're going to send the agenda
later.
The best way this one is about you.
Send the first email.
You can attach the agenda on top of it.
Or you can write the agenda in the emails and you can send it out.
And like if you're sending like best way to send it out like seven days before the meeting and probably
two days ago the meeting, you can resend the agenda again with a little bit of more details or a little
bit of adjustment which you have made over time.
So then everybody will be well returned.
So get an agenda with the right details so they are there and you get one reminder as well, because
the reminder is such an important one, because people are so busy, right?
They're doing so many works.
There's so many problems they're dealing with.
So that reminder will give you a little bit of soft push to look at your agenda and prepare for the
meeting.
And particularly if you're not the CEO of the company, people will pay a lot less because you could
be a manager, you could be a senior manager, you could be a team leader.
So or you could be a director and you have a lot of people into it, even you under you.
And so that push could really help you out to get people attention on the agenda.
So you could actually speak, um, in the right speed and get things sorted out soon because you don't
want to be in a meeting all day because that's not a productive way.
Number three, put in a calendar.
Your company is using different kind of, let's say, Microsoft solution or using different kind of
solution, let's say about, uh, Google Apps or maybe some kind of of of email servers, freeware example.
They always have a calendar option into it.
So make sure that every appointment you are setting up for your team, put in the Google Calendar and
send the invitation and with the same invitation.
Actually, you can easily send the reminder as well too because it has an attachment options.
It has a links option, details options, and also you can send the reminder as well too.
And if you're doing the video call and don't forget to add the video conference link as well in Google
and Microsoft is quite easy.
There's a one button, but if you're using any freeware, you probably are using another video conferencing
solution.
Maybe Google Meet example.
There is a link for that one.
Put it on in that thing.
Otherwise you guys will be like hobbling around where is the link?
And then you have to send out an email somewhere else.
So put everything in one place.
Don't put in different place, different things in different places.
Put everything well prepared, send it out in one time so everybody knows what they need to read and
where they need to jump in to join the meeting.
Meeting the same way if you are doing it in a meeting room.
So book a meeting room.
Write down the meeting rooms details which room is that one so they know exactly where they need to
go and when you are doing offline meetings.
So make it clear and make it everything in one place.
Don't send out different places in different emails.
That is quite actually harassment.
To find out the right information to join your meeting.
Number four, you should kick off.
The meeting is about what is the reason of this meeting.
So probably it should be 1 or 2.
Line statement I like to talk about is about if your marketing strategies, you are talking about the
1 or 2 thing you're going to mention about our company plan to grow 50% this year, that could be the
game changer.
And now our sales is not only could achieve 80% or 60% of the of the KPIs, and we have only two months
left.
So we are doing this marketing strategy meeting example.
So just make that 2 or 3 sentences to talk about the problem to exactly why you guys are in.
Just set the tone of the meeting in the very early part of the meeting.
All right.
So that is my thing.
Give that few lines to everyone.
Look around to every people in your team and just say it.
Number five.
So this is something is an amazing I have learned from bezel.
Let people read that rather than you spell the agenda two to everyone and everybody just looking to
you.
Because when you are speaking, they are listening.
And it could be different.
So you could say that, oh well, now we have the agenda.
Everybody is received the agenda.
Please open the agenda.
And I have total 1.5 minutes to two minutes.
Look at your agenda.
It depends how long the agenda.
If a long agenda is long you can give until three minutes.
But if you are short, you can give even one minute to please look at the agenda.
Everyone.
And now it should be an absolute silence in the meeting room.
Everybody should be reading their own agenda, in their own hand or on computer, or even if they don't
have phone.
Could be tablet or could be phone as well too, so they know what exactly they are going to discuss
in the meeting.
If you're doing an online call, you send it out the agenda and you tell them to read in your computer
because they are in the computer already, they can easily open it up the Google Calendar.
You can just send it.
Hey, agenda is attached to the calendar invitation.
Please open this one and you have two minutes to read through number six.
Now you bring it up and say that from now you can go around the table and you can basically you can
give them 40 to 42 one minute max to say about what are the agenda.
They are really excited about what they really agenda.
They are going to discuss about it.
You tell them that now you read now going to go around and just touch with what are the things you really
keen about and what are the key problems you want to bring to the table today in this meeting, based
on this agenda, anything outside the agenda, we are not going to discuss about it.
We're going to do it later.
Another meeting, not in this meeting.
So in this meeting we're going to rustle this agenda and we get it done.
And there will be people try to bring agenda other people.
That's right.
You take a note, but you say we're going to schedule another meeting for discussing about this one.
Now we're going to discuss this agenda and tell me your interest that just go around the table.
That will set the tone that everybody no, no, no.
Today we're going to talk about this agenda.
And it is important.
And they will think about okay what things are they going to bring you value related to the agenda to
the table.
All right.
And number seven now when everybody will see the agenda and give their 32nd to one minute talks around
the table.
Now you start calling the agenda number one.
Now this is the problem.
So now now now you're you're whole meetings are ready to rock and roll because they are well prepared.
Before now they even they are not well prepared.
Well prepared now they had to read their agenda.
And now, because you also tell them to speak something very important to to speak it out from the agenda,
read it to them themselves.
So that means they have to really think about it, brainstorm it already and speak it out.
So that means it's already in the brain and neuron and they're thinking something to solve, something
to bring something to talk about some idea.
So now you are good to go.
So now you start doing your agenda.
So now keep cracking one by one.
And here we go.
Today you got my seven tips to how to start a great flight takeoff of a great meeting.

--- The Art of Interviewing: Skills to Attract Top Talent ---

Hello.
So here we go.
You are a manager or you are an entrepreneur.
You are.
Or suddenly or recently for your great work, you get promoted to your managers.
And even I have seen a lot of great managers are doing consistently wrong way of the way they are interviewing
people.
But here I ask you one thing.
As a manager, one of the most important thing for you to make sure that your team always have the right
people and they're growing and they're achieving their goals and they are not.
Or if you not understand that there are they are contribution in the team is not really important.
That means it's still your fault because you don't bring the right people into the team.
So as a manager, one of the key things you got to do is about bringing the right people in the team
and also give them the right directions.
So now here's the point.
How do you bring the right people in the team?
I have been seeing so many aspects in my life that a lot of managers are doing such a wrong way of doing
interview, and they basically don't sell themselves first.
They don't sell their company, don't sell their process to you.
But just thinking about expecting that the top notch markets talents to join their company.
If you are like the top 1% of the company of your country, it's a different story.
But there is the other 99%.
So if you are, if you are like a top 1% of the company, maybe the company already trained you on this
one.
You can skip this one.
But if your company is not top 1% and of the company and this video is going to be very, very valuable
because in this video I'm going to give you a total of nine aspects which practically you can utilize
in each of those training program right after this one too.
And not only that, I will also give you an advice on how you can implement each of them and if you
have any trouble implementing this one.
Also, I'm going to give you advice to again, I'm telling you that after if you follow these nine thing
your total training experience, because the way you are going to interview your interviewers to select
your people, to join your team will completely change.
As a hiring manager, you can be it manager, you can be sales manager, you can be IT manager or it
could be or operational manager.
You could be in finance manager.
Doesn't matter.
Your interview will be world class.
You want that, right?
So let's get started.
Number one, think about your last interview.
Do you feel like you talk too much?
How much time did you speak it out in the interview and how much your candidate?
So just make an average of your last three interviews you did.
Or if you're the first time you did an interview, just take that data and think about what is the ratio
between your talk and your candidate talk.
If you see that your ratio of between you and your candidate talk is more than 30% or 2025%, that means
you are talking too much.
You need to bring your word less.
Probably two things you are making.
Probably you are too much speaking and you're giving two overload of information which is not creating
a great impression to yourself and your company to your candidate.
Secondly, you are not giving enough opportunity to speak to the candidates, to speak to, to speak
to you so that you can actually convince you and show you all the expertise to the interview.
So that means you are.
You're speaking too much.
It's such a counterproductive way to measure how much you really speak.
Keep it down to less than 25% and let them speak.
2,575% at least.
So that would be a good balance for you if you're looking for a really good handrails on that.
Number two, remember you are interviewing.
You are not training a lot of interviewers and a lot of young managers, or even sometimes senior managers
come up with to tell the candidates what is wrong, what is right, and why it is not right.
They start getting into a discussion, which is a very good discussion actually.
It could be a really good, valuable things.
But again, you got to remember you are wasting the time of your candidate and yourself for your one
hour interview slot because your main mission is this one is to assess their expertise and experience,
to see how they're going to feed to your team.
So you should be focusing on that one rather than start to train them by giving them feedback immediately,
you can give them feedback.
Leave it on in the last part of the interview.
Keep it for last ten minutes and give them feedback.
What you say this is what I felt or I can.
Or if you don't have a time, send it on an email said, hey.
This is the thing I have felt in the interview.
I felt like this is my feedback.
What do you think?
And then you can have a ding dong conversation in the email, so you don't have to be in the interview
call to make a make a situation where you spend a lot of time on your discussions.
And finally, you cannot focus on the all over the skill set questions or behavioral interview session
questions you set up for the interview.
So remember you are interviewing, assessing the skill set how they're going to feed to your team,
not about you training them.
So this is one of the key mistakes I have been seeing with a lot of young managers, even in a lot of
senior managers, to avoid it.
And you will significantly improve your interview skill.
Number three like I say, this one, your main thing is about assessing the candidate.
You're not messing about training, right?
So what are the things you need to think about?
What are the assessing skill you are doing into it?
So one of the best thing is about like to assess.
You should assess them in our technical level.
Number two you should assess them in the experience level.
Number three you should assess them about the personality level because they need to feed on.
Number four you should ask them about the team, players and number five.
I love saying this one is about the core value alignment, the core value of your team and of your company
and their core value, how aligned they are.
You should be assessing that one.
Is it a conflicting one?
Can they adopt each other?
And the last one?
You think about the culture like an example.
What is the culture you are promoting in a team?
They need to align to them as well too, and probably you sometime your team culture is quite different
than your company cultures, but make sure that that person walking into your team going to be part
of your own culture you are promoting, so they need to fit to your culture.
You can talk about a few of the words about what the culture is they love to work with, and that could
give you a great aspect that what cultures you have and they have a great alignment or not.
So align these six assessment.
And if you focus about by multiple question and side question, you can design to get a really great
understanding about the candidate.
Number four introduce yourself I don't like at all.
You really need to sell yourself in your company, but don't make it a whole life story for 15 minutes
of time.
Make it two minutes.
Create a really pitch decks about exactly like the top notch sentence you're from.
You can even write it down in your computer, and you can put it down in your phone, and you can really
refresh one more time.
You can write down the bullets you want to speak about, so just make it 2 to 3 minutes, introduce
your company and yourself and make sure that what is your position, what position you are interviewing
and why you are you are interested in having this candidate in the conversation.
That could be a great starter to introduce and start off your great ice breaking conversation.
Like I said this one, it should be selling your company, selling yourself, and also be a great icebreaker
too.
But you should not be more than three minutes maximum four minutes.
And then you let the candidates speak because you are there to listen.
You are not there to speak much because you don't listen means you cannot assess the candidate.
So that's a big mistake a lot of managers are doing right now.
Number five, one of the key questions you should always ask your candidate.
I love asking this question.
Whenever I'm hiring for Vista Group or even my CEO.
Why do you want to join our team?
What do you want?
To join our company and tell them to explain this one.
What really motivated them as well to.
And a lot of the time, a lot of candidates are giving you a lot of vague signs and vague statements,
and that is a really good flag for you to really assess.
I'm not saying that you should not just hire them because of that not good answer, but that could be
one of the answer you should consider to see that one, how they really made a research and going to
make effort when they join your company.
Number six send all the details of your positions and your company and the product to the client, to
the candidates to let them read on board.
Because don't spend any time to explaining on your companies and your product during the interview.
Such a waste of time.
So because you need to assess that if they are really interested to join your team and you and like
your product, they're going to study it and they will be able to.
So ask about tell me more about what do you understand so far of my company.
Tell me more.
What do you understand so far about the product?
So that would be a really great aspect.
Don't judge them, but understand them where they are in right now.
So send them the really information then and ask them the question.
So that is one of the key things that will help you to understand about what must they have understand
about your product.
And then you can put down in the last ten minutes to talk a little bit about what kind of products,
what is your KPIs?
Because you're going to in the last thing, you will let them allow the question anyway, right?
There will be tips about this one.
I will be asking you as well too, and you can explain more about your product after they speak it out
immediately.
Or you can leave it in the last part too.
It's your wish.
That way you will design your interview.
Number eight ask them about your past experience and stories.
This is one of the thing.
Um, you always ask them about.
Okay, particular that company.
What was the problem?
What was the thing you have been doing?
What is the key project did you deliver?
Tell me the story.
The candidate always would like to drag you to the future, which is great.
I mean, there will be some futuristic question.
You should be there.
But also you want to hear about those stories about the past company, because that will show you that
how they really solve the problem, how they face the problem, and what kind of really expertise project
they have deployed so they can really bring you that kind of experience on board.
Because maybe you don't have that experience right now, and that experience can be valuable for you.
And that could be one of the measurements for you to choosing multiple candidates to the right candidate,
to joining your team as well.
So number eight, I want to really say this one.
You already gave the information about the company and the product you bought them.
So now you ask them the question that what they have understood about the company.
So that is one of the thing.
Design 2 to 3 questions, one for the company, one for the particular products you want them to be
on board.
Ask them the question, what they have understood so far and what are the opportunities they see in
the product.
That could be one of the great aspects for you to interview them on board moving forward as well too.
Number nine, let them ask question.
The last ten minutes of the interview should be leaving them to say, hey, do you have any question
for me you can ask?
So you should be saving that ten minutes for that question and you should be asking one, two, three
questions.
If somehow they have more questions, you can always tell them, okay, send me out an email.
After the right of the call, I can give you my email address.
Right now.
This is my email address and I will get it back to you, and then you really get back to them.
Even even you don't want to hire them.
If they send you out the questions you should be answering because you are hiring, not hiring them
because they are not fitting to your team.
But however you are a professional and you are a hiring manager, you should give them a really good
answer the right way that will show how good and what is the standard you are and and and and what standard
they are not meeting.
That's why you are not bringing them on board.
So do not make that mistake.
So here you go.
You are a new manager, a hiring manager, as a sales manager, a sales director or whatever role you
are in.
I give you nine tips.
Use this one and that will significantly improve your interview skill and bring the right talent for
your team.
Here we go.
Let's use this one in your in your in your interview process and bring the best talent for you and become
successful.
All the best.

--- The Feedback Loop Formula: Unlock Team Performance with Science-Based Leadership ---

Through the journey to become a C-suite level executive and doing all the transformation work for different
billion dollar businesses.
Feedback was always been a very important tool for me.
I used it, I have learned it to make it better.
And then when I started to build my nonprofit and then I started building my venture group on top of
it, it required me to really build a great level of skill set to run the feedback in a very efficiently
and effectively.
Because I realized this on feedback is one of the fundamental skills that we need to have as a leader
or an executive to create a breakthrough result for ourselves, and also through our team as well too.
And since 2020, I have been sharing and training all the top leaders of different top companies, of
different level manager level around the world about how to use this feedback loop challenge so they
can build themselves in a better feedback way.
So feedback could be could be a gift for the team member as well too.
And through this session, I will be sharing with you that skill sets you as a executive or as a manager
or as a leader.
You can able to able to use this feedback loop channel.
So to make it better to go through the session, I'm going to give you the skills.
So you learn how to do this for yourself.
And I'm going to also give you the related resources too.
So you can do it with your team as well too.
So all the resources will be in the description section and the resource section of this coaching session.
So just grab them after the session and utilize it with your team.
Because when you do it for yourself, it's a one step up and we do it for the whole team is going to
be a whole revolution breakthrough you can create.
So I want to start with this key realization, because I want to make sure that we are on the same page
in terms of a deep realization.
A well-functioning feedback loop is the engine of growth of any team or organization.
It turns individual insight into collective progress, fosters trust through psychological safety,
and transform mistakes into stepping stone for innovation without continuous feedback Back, progress
stagnates.
Progress can stop with it and the team evolved, adapt and thrive in a constantly changing, challenging
world.
Because we live in this Vuca challenging world of a transformed world.
So that's why feedback is a great weapon for it.
And I'm going to share with you how you can use this one in proper way.
I've been seeing tons of examples like situation, like how poorly the feedback was been using.
It's actually used the teams to even drop down the team.
But now we're going to learn how to use this feedback loop to create a great outcome from the team too.
So let's dive into today's session.
Right now I'm going to share with you how to do it.
So now the first thing is about what are the things you're going to get.
What is the skill set you're going to get from this session?
The first one is about through the skill set.
What I'm going to transfer you in this session right now.
You can use this to improve participants, to learn to give and receive feedback Without damaging the
trust.
It's very important.
Number two, you can increase emotional intelligence and communication skills for yourself and for you
among your team members too.
And number three is about enhance team culture.
Focus on continuous improvement.
Because every day there's a new challenge, new problem coming, a new competitor coming in which you're
throwing new challenges to.
So we need to only one do one thing continuous innovation to win over and stay ahead of the game too.
And you're going to learn all these three things for yourself.
And I'm going to also share.
Share with you step by step how you can do it for your teams as a leader or as executives.
And to do that one, you need resources and tools and slides.
Everything I'll provide you in the description section and the resource section of this coaching session.
You can download it and you can use it.
You don't need to create anything.
All right.
So first thing first let's talk about science.
The feedback is such an important factor why it matters so much.
So there is a is a psychological safety is behind of it.
According to the science.
So there is a research insight coming from is this high performance teams prioritize psychological safety
enabling open communication and continuous learning.
So that's why we need to establish the psychological safety.
There are so many places we have seen.
There are so many organizations who does not foster and does not focus about psychological safety.
They use pressure fear to drive people forward, and that's one of the reason they actually fall short
on this innovations and continuous learning process.
To number two is about all the things like it's been done like it's been done in Google, like the Google
project, Aristotle has been all about building the psychological safety, and they have done remarkable
results into it.
I'm not going into all the details, but I'm going to tell you what I've done.
Like, I have done this thing for my team, which three x and five x, I could improve their motivations
and their progress and continuous learning and communication skills.
And that's something you can foster by utilizing Intuit too, as well.
And that is the key fact about it.
So the teams with high psychological safety are more innovative, resilient and collective because turnover
rate is one of the biggest problems in the team.
Like when you are a leader, the number one thing is about getting people right, people in the team
and keep them in the team to and, and this is going to be a feedback is often I've seen so many people
just leave because they just cannot handle the feedback.
And it's a completely skill and expertise gap for a leader.
If you are facing such problem, this module can solve for you.
This.
This is the coaching session is for you.
We are going to take this thing from the next level.
How you can use feedback as a gift to take people forward and getting more things done to.
So all right so how to get it done right.
It's going to be total four step process.
Not a lot of steps not a Not a ten step.
It's just a four step process.
And here's the beautiful thing.
The first you you can do this exercise for yourself.
You can get the resources from the resource section of this coaching session.
You do it for yourself.
And then you're going to do it for your team and to do it for your team.
There will be total four steps.
And to do all the four steps you don't need two days workshops.
You don't need a day workshops.
You don't even need a four hour workshop.
It's going to just take one hour only.
I literally say just a one hour session.
You're going to run and it will be done.
The best way doing this one is when you do it every one month.
If you could do it every two months, it's probably would get away with this one.
But better.
You do it for every one month because you want to build the culture into it too.
And I'm going to show you step by step that how you can transit from one session to another session,
how one session can facilitate your second session as well to the following session to I'm going to
give it to you step by step.
So now the next thing is about number one steps.
Let's talk about the steps.
Radical candor session is going to be role playing.
And pair.
Then the second step is about debrief and reflection.
It could be a group discussion.
The third one will be the feedback and culture is going to be action planning and the fourth will be
post activity.
Group work is basically next.
What is next?
You're going to follow up activity on this one to drive things forward.
I will explain to you what is in details, how to do it, what resource you need.
I got everything for you in this in this coaching session.
So just sit back and let's let's walk through with me.
Let's walk the walk with me.
Because I have done this for so many times for my teams, and I've done it for so many leaders and coaches
too.
And I'm going to transfer this skill to you through this coaching session.
So now let's get started.
Step number one.
Step number one is going to be radical candor session.
Radical candor means basically it's a radically open minded feedback.
And Netflix used that one years back.
And there is a book about it to radical Candor as well too.
So I was practicing into it.
And then I saw this one in Netflix.
Oh yeah, that is what I was doing right now.
But don't worry, I'm going to give it to you.
So now let me give you the instruction how to do this thing.
It's going to be only 15 minutes.
Step number one.
To do this 15 minute session, all you need to do first pair up with another participant.
Put two people into one pair.
Then one participant act as a leader and the other one acts as a member.
The third thing is about the leader.
Provide feedback to the team member using the radical candor principle.
And what is the principle?
The principle will be only two.
The first one be direct.
Clearly state the feedback without ambiguity.
That's number one.
Number two is be empathetic.
Show genuine care and understanding for the person.
I know it's still not clear yet.
No worries, I'm going to give it to you.
I have a full guideline for you on the session.
I'm going to guide you more, but right now just think about this two.
Be direct, be empathetic and then switch role after five minutes.
So as an example, if you have a team of ten people.
So you could pair up with five and then you then you can have one manager or one one member into it.
And then if you have four, you can have it on two pairs.
And then you can switch their positions as a manager and also the member two as well.
And then you can do the role play two.
But now the better you do it for one round and just leave it for 15 minutes.
And it's good to do it for two minutes max.
One minute to 1.5 minute per pair is good enough because you want to make it short, direct and empathic.
You don't want to have a long big story about it, right?
It would be really confusing.
So that's the step number one.
But I'm going to give you more help right now.
So use this framework to give the framework to feedbacks into Radical Candor two.
So this is something you can put on the slide in the screen and tell the team that, hey, this is the
way you should be giving feedback.
So there will be only three factors into it.
Number one, care personally.
So show that you value the person you are giving feedback to.
So that's the first one.
Number two is about challenge directly not indirectly.
You got to challenge.
So be honest and be specific about areas for improvement.
The third thing is about avoid this pitfall.
There's two common pitfall.
I've seen it over and over, over and over from all the managers leaders, and I help them to fix it.
And I want you to get it fixed for yourself, too.
Or your team member too.
So the first one is ruinous empathy.
This empathy is wrong and it's something ruin the things it's not.
Make things better.
We often talk about show empathy, right?
But we can do the empathy the wrong way.
So the goal is about being too kind and avoiding difficult conversation is the ruinous empathy.
This is something ruined that actually progress.
Number one is about obnoxious aggression being blunt and insensitive.
And that's what actually make the problem.
So these are the two pitfalls to avoid into it.
So let me give you some examples.
So you can even show it to your team member to so they can learn as well.
So number.
This is one ruinous empathy example.
I know you are busy.
Maybe we can extend the deadline again.
So that means you are sacrificing the team progress by just extending the deadline.
So maybe it's avoiding conflict, but it's actually putting the team down because you are not being
productive enough and getting things done for you.
So that's a great example of ruinous empathy.
So now let's talk about aggression.
Obnoxious aggression.
You are always late.
This is unacceptable.
We cannot accept this thing.
That's an aggression too.
So what is a radical candor will be.
So I have noticed you have missed several deadlines.
Can we discuss what is causing this?
And how can I support you in meeting future deadlines?
That's a radical candor.
That's way too.
So it's not about being aggression pushing people into it, but that's something really get people to
the right space and so they know what problem they're facing and, and actually can get you a solution
into it too.
So now step number two.
So everybody do the role plays and you have already coached them up.
These are the two things need to be done.
So now they're going to do this three things for all the matter.
So how did they feel to give and receive feedback.
Each of the team members need to write it down into that one.
How do I feel to give and receive feedback?
Number two, what challenges did you encounter during this exercise?
Tell them to write it down.
And number three is about what strategies you can use to ensure your feedback is both direct and empathic.
Let them propose some of their strategies to.
They also also professionals, managers, leaders.
Let them write it down and we're going to process all through together.
So you give them five minutes.
Tell them to write it down.
And in just five minutes not more than that.
So step one was 15 minutes.
Step two is five minutes.
Because if you give them more time, they will just keep writing.
And that's not a good idea.
It should be coming from top of their Up frame now.
Now we're going to move to the step number three.
Okay.
So I want to give you four.
Prior to that I want to give you some more tips about it too.
So we talk about these are the the three issues to avoid.
Right.
So first one is about ruinous empathy.
So what to avoid on this thing.
Avoid prioritizing kindness at the expense of honesty.
Don't do that.
That's like things to avoid.
Number two, manipulative is a big issue.
A lot of leaders talk about leadership is a lot of manipulation.
It's not.
Leadership is not a manipulation.
And that's why focus on providing feedback that is neither caring nor direct.
I mean, that's something you need to avoid.
Otherwise it will be almost like a manipulation as well too.
And the third one is about the aggression is about this is something you need to avoid is about challenging
without care or empathy.
So you got to come up with the proper care and empathy when you're challenging them for two.
So that's why I always talk about that.
Radical candor is actually balancing the honesty and empathy to foster trust and growth.
Again, I'm going to say it.
Balancing the honesty and empathy to foster the growth, trust and the growth.
We want to balance this honesty and empathy into it.
And that is going to be a very important factor.
All right.
So now let's talk about the step number three.
So step number three will be is about continuous feedback culture.
We want to take some action planning right now.
This is something really important.
Everybody got this one.
How to do the right hander or how to do it what not to do it you want to share with them to.
And this is the part will be five minutes for them to take actions into it.
So focus number one.
So what is the number one thing they will change.
Tell them to write it down and reflect on how you continuously provide feedback.
Second focus will be identify 2 to 3 ways to improve your feedback approach.
And number three is about commit to implementing a feedback loop in your team by setting regular feedback
sessions.
Number two is about encouraging team members to share feedback openly.
And number three is about creating an environment where feedback is seen as a tool for growth.
Again, I'm saying it's a tool for growth.
I'm going to highlight this one too, as a tool for growth.
It's a very important one.
So now tell them to write it down on this one too.
Tell them to write it down how they're going to do it.
So ask them to commit it to you as well.
This is just a five minute session.
You tell them this is the three focus.
You need to get it done right now as as an executable leader, whoever reporting to you and write down
what action they will do for each of the things.
So tell them to write it down in front of it, and then you tell them tell them to share to the whole
teams.
If the four people, each of them you can have, give them one minute for them to share.
So in five minutes will be fine.
If you need all of a big team like ten people, then maybe you need to extend it more to ten minutes
to.
But that will be fine.
So one minute sharing straight to the point.
And now when you have done all those things so now it's going to top.
The last thing is about the key takeaways.
So that will be the the step number four and the final step of this activity.
The first one is about schedule a feedback session with your team within the next five days.
So that is one of the key instructions to be provided.
So what is the plan activity.
Is it going to be a calendar?
I'm going to schedule it tomorrow.
Ask them to commit into it.
It's already looking like 15 minutes but I think it should be just ten minutes is just fine.
Even 5 minutes or 10 minutes is fine, but just put it on for maximum ten minutes.
Ask them to key in their actions.
Number two, use the Radical Candor framework to deliver constructive feedback.
How are you going to do it?
Ask them to fill it up to as well.
And the third thing is about ask for feedback on your own performance and actively listen to the response.
So how are they going to get the feedback from their own performance as well too?
Are they going to ask it or are they going to have a coffee chat, or are they going to ask for feedback
in a regular thing?
Ask them to propose.
Don't come up with a solution.
Ask them to propose their actions to you.
And then as a leader, you can validate that one too.
There are so many things you could do, like you could coffee chats.
You could have a conversation.
You could have a lunch conversation.
You could be a project, review sessions, all the different things.
But ask the team member to make their own plan.
And then when they present one by one, you can give feedback into it.
And that will be that's called a leadership into it too.
So leadership is about driving breakthrough results.
And that will only happen when you're working a team.
It's impossible to create a breakthrough when you're working on yourself alone.
Leadership is all about driving a team to a great result and which create a breakthrough for the company
too.
And through this session, I have given you train you all those four steps.
How you can do that?
So like I said, this one, do it for yourself first and then get this material which you downloaded
from the resource section.
So you have the slides.
You can do it for your team.
And I have already transferred this skill set to you from this coaching session too.
If it's something not clear, I suggest you rewatch the session.
You have the session, rewatch it, do it for yourself, and then next two weeks period of time, schedule
the first one hour session and run this fourth session.
And I tell you that when you start running this one, it will be game changer.
So the best way to do this one, you do it for every month, one session, one hour.
It's not going to take a lot of time.
Just one hour.
You have the resources.
You have the meeting rooms.
Just book the meeting room and run the one hour sessions every, every month and you will see how amazing
things can happen.
And now one of the best thing is about always before doing the second session.
Send out the summary of the first sessions to all the participants of your team so they know what was
being discussed.
It's kind of in my head because you know that people forget, and that's why the leaders need to communicate
and actually over communicate to and to build the team and build the cultures, too.
Yes.
It's sometimes it's not a thankless job.
Sometimes it requires you to do more.
But that is what is leadership about.
And you have the skillset feedback loop, challenge exercise from this coaching sessions too.
You got the tools.
You got the skills.
Now let's apply to your team and and and see how you create the breakthrough.
It will create a breakthrough.
And me cannot wait to give you the biggest clap in the room, and I'll see you in the next coaching
session.

--- The Ultimate Blueprint: Crafting Highly Effective Meetings ---

So I'm going to tell you how you can run an efficient meeting.
To run an efficient meeting, you really need to understand what are the different types of meetings
based on the organizations or based on the role.
Normally, every teams may need four types of meetings and these are specifically separate.
So let's get started.
What are the four types of meetings you have to drive?
Number one this is the meeting is a hi hello meeting.
So this is the hi hello meeting.
You should be doing it every day.
You asking them for.
You go around and you don't even need to pull them all together in one room.
If you're doing a startup, I mean, you probably already in one room.
If you're already in an organizations, then you guys are in the same floor.
You can just walk around to to every other peoples and just say, hi, hello.
How are you doing?
Hey.
How's life?
Everything going?
Great.
So this is like a hi, hello meeting, which you can spend 5 to 10 minutes maximum.
And it's a daily exercise.
It's not a one time exercise.
So that is the one type of meeting.
That's the one type of meeting.
And you just do it.
If you think that you can pull together your direct reports every day for a daily stand up, there's
a scrum, there is a 5 to 10 minutes of stand up.
And that is exactly that kind of a flavor meeting.
But they extend it a bit more.
But this is like more like a connecting meeting.
So that is the way you could do this.
Hi.
Hello.
Meeting every day, 5 to 10 minutes max.
You could pull together if you have a direct report.
If you guys are in the same cubicle, just stand up and do it.
And it's very easy to do it.
So the type two, the type two meeting is is the tactical meeting.
So type two is the tactical meeting.
What do you do.
You do it in a once in a week.
In the once in a week you sit down together and you pick like 4 to 5 great agendas and you communicate
to everyone before and in the meeting, you started to talk to each other and you started to get everybody's
understand what is the tactical going on?
What is the present issue going on?
What are the progress we make?
What is the mixing we're going to do the next week?
What we have done last week, how much we have progressed.
So far, is there any outgoing issues will arise from our present solution?
Do you have any major customer complaint come forward or any any incident comfort we need to close that
is called tactical meeting and this should be done weekly basis.
And if you are a manager or director, do it with your direct reports so you can actually see all the
things help forward.
But here is so much important when your director, your manager or C-level, your role is so much crucial
in these ones.
You can really guide them and you can really make them establish the trust between all the team members
and make sure that you have no level of dysfunction.
So everybody trusting each other, everybody taking accountability, everybody taking hold each other
accountable.
Everybody is sharing the great ideas.
Everybody is putting their best effort with passion and everybody is just moving forward.
The result.
And that's exactly you want to do in this meeting.
Take the ball forward like the football match.
It should be going forward to score and close the problem.
All right.
So now the third type of meeting.
The third type of meeting is called strategic meeting.
And the strategic meeting is where you pick the top 1 or 2 type of strategic meeting you really want
to do.
And this is the meeting is a monthly meeting or biweekly meeting which you should do.
Keep it very separate from your weekly meeting because a lot of executive, let's say, C-level and
director type of people, they like to make like a meeting or two.
They like to put this, this strategic meeting and tactical meeting together.
And that makes like so long and so confusing and so a lot of people get out and even lose the focus.
And there's a lot of agenda.
There is not enough time.
And when you're running a meeting with so many agenda for so long period of time, people lose energy
and lose the passion and lose the focus.
And that's the thing you cannot do.
Because when you are a leader, when you are a manager or a director C-level, the first thing you need
to do make sure that everybody is fully oriented on your agendas and giving the best shot to nail the
problem down and that's the way you're taking the things forward.
So in the strategic meeting there are a few tips.
I would like to give it to you when you do this monthly or biweekly strategic meeting.
Send out a clear agenda.
So let me give you some examples of strategic meeting agenda to as well.
Make sure it's very clear.
You could write down a brief line and then you write down a description.
What is the description.
Let's say about this one.
There is a big threat from the competitor coming forward for your product.
Or there is somebody who copied your product example or somebody, somebody trying to ruin the reputation
of a company or you, you, you really wanted to boost revenue in the next quarter, and you want to
look at the why your company did not make enough revenue in the last quarter.
So these are called strategic meetings.
That's the way you guys sit together for like a couple of hours, sometimes three hours and and kick
down all these problems.
So make sure that what you're trying to achieve.
So let's make an introduction description the problem statement and then write down Write down a goal
in thought as well too.
And you also should send it out with this agenda at least 3 to 4 days ago, and request every people
to prepare for that one.
So every people who are joining the meeting, who actually the right people coming in and they are also
can prepare before they come into the meeting too.
So that's very, very important.
So now I'm going to tell you the meeting type for this type.
Type four is coming from a cultural meeting.
So in the cultural meeting you should be doing a once in a quarter where you take the teams out of the
in and out of the office, take in front of the office to a restaurant or some kind of meeting space,
sit down together and you do probably a day or a half day discussions and talk about any particular
cultural shift or any particular thing.
Appreciation you do or you give feedback sessions or you do mentoring session.
You could do some kind of training program inside as well to and that's the way you should be doing,
very sadly, a lot, a lot of lot of lot of companies and leaders are making all these two, three and
four, all making meetings too, and it's not going anywhere.
So from your side, you should not be making that mistake.
So that is one of the things I wanted to share with you.
Now let me give you some more bonus.
So when it comes to the bonus, make sure that after every strategic and tactical meeting and cultural
meeting, send out the digital agenda with the with the subjects.
And then you put down the the descriptions and then you talk about the goals you're trying to achieve.
And then you can also tell them that you know, what are the right people should be joining as well,
to make sure that you clearly understand and assess who should be the right people joining to that meeting,
because they need to know who are coming.
And so those people, before coming to the meeting, they can prepare what they need to maybe the some
of the information they don't know.
You don't want it to have someone coming, a director and telling you as a CEO that, hey, I don't
know.
You should be giving them the information.
I mean, and by saying that, hey, let's prepare for that one.
And this is the thing we're going to discuss, so they can even talk to the direct report to make sure
that they're ready and well prepared before coming to the meeting.
And in the meeting is going very straightforward.
I like that.
I want to tell to you, if you put all this together, it's going to be maximum.
It's going to cost you 10 to 15 minutes.
Take ten to 15 or 20 maximum percent of your workload if you're a director or or a C-level suite, and
you think that 20% time in the meeting and to take the goals forward is not a valuable for you.
I think you forgot your positions and you you forgot your roles.
So these are the things you need to do.
So this is something it's so crucial that you need to do this meeting.
And you really need to make this efficient and effective.
And that's the thing I shared with you.
The four types do not make the meetings too.
And focus.
Stay strategic, stay tactical and stay cultural and do the daily meetings.
and if we do this one for next three months, you will see there's a huge change happening to you in
terms of your productiveness in your meeting.
And one more thing that I told you that there is no dysfunctions in your team should happen.
So I told you, I'm going to give you five dysfunctions of the video is coming here.
So then after this, this video watch that.
So you can also check the dysfunction level of your of your team.
So you can assess which level you are.
And then you take the actions to make sure that everybody trusting each other, everybody is accountable
and everybody driving for the goals.
And that's how you can become a successful leader and take your career forward.
And any organization you are working, you will be successful and make the organization successful to.

--- Unlock Time for What Truly Matters ---

Delegation is not about just handing over your tasks, it's about protecting your focus.
McKinsey's this one insight.
Make it very clear it's this one top performing CEO spent at least 20% less time, or less priority
or less important tasks compared to other CEO who are not top performing.
However, most middle managers doing completely opposite of that thing.
So what is the difference?
The difference is this one.
The high performing manager already know what they should not do in day to day basis.
One of my mentee, she's a marketing director for an MNC company multinational company.
She came to me with that problem.
She was delegating a lot to different her team members, but still always feel very buried and overloaded
and overwhelmed and also in panic mode as well too.
So based on my initial audit, the one of the thing I found out, this one, she was delegating the
wrong task to the team member and that was creating a lot of chaos for her.
So then I worked with her.
There apply a matrix of privatizations in her task goals, which actually helped her to solve all the
problem.
And not only that, it helped her to almost free up 15 hours of her time in a day to day basis on her
calendar so she could spend those 15 hours to build other high quality and other highly important things,
to take the team moving forward and take the company to create different breakthrough impact as well.
So the point is about how to delegate properly.
What was the thing went wrong.
So I'm going to give you three delegation framework and that will solve your delegation related problem.
It will give you a clear timeline and clear path to delegate properly, so you can create a breakthrough
result from your team through delegation.
And because you free up to do more important thing ready?
Of course you do.
Let's get started with the first one.
The first one is about the delegation matrix.
I want you to think about your tasks into two axes.
Urgency is now versus later, and importance is about high and low.
Add a third layer development value.
Does this help someone on your team grow?
So let me now list out different task type urgent plus low value.
It's about automate or delegate.
Second one is about again plus high value.
Do it yourself but plan to systemize it later.
Not urgent were high value schedule and protect next category is about low importance plus low urgency.
Eliminate it completely.
So that is the goal.
And the final category is about medium value plus growth value delegate as a stretch opportunity.
So here's the thing I want you to always remember.
Use this as your filter before you delegate.
Don't just dump.
It's about multiplying the impact.
The next framework I want to give it to you is called Bendover And $10,000 walk model.
I have learned it from Navigant.
He's been a successful venture capitalist, and I'm going to show you how you can apply this model to
your life.
And I am doing it for my own life as I have an incredible outcome where I got so far.
The first category $10 work admin, logistics, checking emails.
The second category is about $100 work, coaching, hiring, writing, strategic plan and the final
one is about a $10,000 work vision building scalable system partnerships IP.
So before you do any task or you plan a task, ask this question to yourself am I spending my time on
$10,000 work or getting stuck in $10 task?
Now the third framework, which I'm going to give it to you is this one.
I is your first delegator or first assistant delegator.
So in leadership 4.0, the I is just not a tool.
You get help, but it's also your first level of delegation to get the things done.
Even getting other team member human team member to get involved before use ChatGPT or notion AI for
the first draft summarizes idea mapping.
The second automate report with Zapier or Google looker offload scheduling and reminders to AI assistant.
If a machine can do it faster, delegate it.
If your team, a human can do it better, then develop it.
So now I want you to pause this thing, and I want to answer this question to yourself, because this
is going to be a very good reflection point for you moving forward.
What's one end of your task?
You are still doing that.
You should not.
Why are you still holding into it?
I want to pause the video and write it down in your notepad or in your diary right now, and get back
to me.
I really want you to write it down because in this program, 4.0, I'm really helping you make the transformation
happening inside of you, not just giving you a bunch of ideas which you will listen through.
So pause the video, write it down, and get back to me.
Now you have learned the frameworks.
I'm going to also give you three pro tips right now so you can apply those frameworks efficiently and
effectively to your work and life so you can have a great outcome by utilizing those frameworks.
Ready?
Of course you are.
Let's get started right now.
The first one is about time.
Track for yourself, at least for the first three days moving forward.
Use a journal or app level each task $10, $100, and $1,000.
You'll be surprised where your time goes, actually.
Number two, create a not Me list.
Write down every task you should never touch again.
Give it to your assistant.
Delegate to AI or eliminate it completely.
Number three, delegate it for growth, not just relief.
Don't just give away work.
Give away the opportunities.
Use low risk, but meaningful tasks to develop your future leaders.
Now I want you to take another reflection moving forward because this is helping you to transform.
And I want to make the transformation on you through this coaching program.
Think of your current to do list.
Which item could become someone else $100 opportunity if you let go of it today, what would that free
you to focus on?
I want to write down that answer and get back to me.
So let's pause the video right now.
Write it down in your notebooks or the Wattpad in your computer, and get back to me in a few minutes.
Well done.
You have done.
Now it's time for you to post that thing into LinkedIn.
So whatever answer you have, write down the two answer right.
I want you to write it down in a LinkedIn profile or even Facebook profile.
Tag me there too, and post there and then myself and my team will come over and interact with your
post, and also give you other related materials for you to create a breakthrough effect.
Because I'm telling you right now, you are not taking this course just to learn through from passive
learning.
I'm running this program to help you to transform yourself so you can make a breakthrough changes inside
of you so you can create breakthrough in your organization through your leadership skill.
So now I want to pause the video, make the post in LinkedIn or Facebook, tag me there and get back
to me so you can come tagging.
You can tag me inside your post, or you can tag me in the comment section.
Anything is fine, and all my LinkedIn profile and Facebook profile link is already given in the resource
section, so you can check it out from there too.
So now make your posts and get back to me in a few minutes.
Well done.
You just did it.
And very soon myself and my team will come over and will interact with you in the post.
Leadership isn't just about doing, it's about deciding what only you should do and let go of the rest.
This is how the CEO thing, and this is exactly how the transformation start, and you are in this program
with me, means your transformation is already happening.
So let's rock it forward and I'll see you in the next coaching session.

--- Unlock Your Mind: 5 Approaches to Boost Mental Productivity ---

In this video, I'll share with you five mental productivity principles which I everyday use, which
you can use it after this video.
After watching so you could annex, I really say that you can tenex your productivity what you are doing
right now.
You want that right?
Of course you do.
So let's get started.
Number one not forgiving.
There's so many people I see this one around us is about when they don't want to forgive.
So even I tried on myself to.
When I try not to forgive on something, it's so hard for me to let that thing go.
It keeps rolling like a bad record inside the mind, over and over and over.
So what is happening with this?
All those mental record when it's happening in my mind?
Basically, it does not let me focus on the thing I supposed to do.
What does it mean?
It is actually making me focus on this absolutely useless thing in my mind, over and over and over.
A trash record is playing in my mind.
That's an absolute stupid way.
I'm just simply destroying my valuable moment.
Probably it was a sucky experience, probably a bad conversation, or probably it was a bad relationship,
or probably a bad friendship, or it's a bad business deal.
But however it is, it was an experience.
So the goal is about how to extract a lesson from it and get out of those bad record, which is basically
destroying my present now.
And that's not going to happen if I'm not just forgive and walk off.
We got to move on and use our valuable time.
So we could just simply use our time to make ourselves productive, because those broken record not
giving us anything, we probably already extract all the best lesson we can get in the very first few
times of playing on that one too, and all the things happening after this one just simply trash talking
our own mind.
So now the goal is about how do we forgive fast, move on and jump to the next very thing and drive
that forward.
because that's why we have an exciting journey moving forward.
Number two, blaming others, the people who rightly focus about just blaming others, simply they don't
do one thing, they don't take the responsibility.
And these people are really trash.
So now my fundamental goal is about avoiding such kind of people, and then also correct them by dragging
them that they're just simply doing the trashing to the other people because they are trash.
Their mind is full of trash too.
So my first very important is about everything around me is mine.
I own everything in my world.
Basically, there is a book about this one.
You can check it out from Jackal from Extreme Ownership.
Excellent book.
If you ever love reading book, this is the book I would highly recommend on this one.
To the extreme ownership.
Say this one.
No bad teams, but bad leaders.
That's what apply in the work.
So that means in the work or in personal life, everything I own.
So there is no blame game.
I'm taking responsibility.
What I'm doing right now and I'm gonna do it and I'm going to move it forward.
If I really did it wrong, I will say sorry and move forward to the next thing.
There is nothing about hanging back and blaming them and try to avoid the responsibility, because with
that one, whenever somebody do that one, somebody just simply doesn't look competent.
And that's a terrible way to blow someone's brand in personal life or even professional life as well.
To never do that mistake to yourself, don't destroy yourself in front of other people.
You look so bad.
Never, ever.
I want to be that person in the seat.
Number three negative thinking.
Our minds are always full of negative things.
As a human, we have a monkey mind.
It's running around, going around, banging to each other and getting some issues, eating some bad
food or different kind of things.
Right?
Which is fine.
Not everyone has a disciplined thinking.
So now the goal is about using this mental detox principle number three to make our mindset really quiet
and calm.
So one of the exercises I love doing, this one is about once in a month or every twice in a month.
Sit down somewhere.
Do not touch any any digital devices and just do nothing for ten minutes and let that monkey mind run
around and speak it out.
Because in our everyday possible day we do so many things and those are the things just keep to our
mind and we just force to the doing the next thing.
But those things stack inside in our mental inbox, and mental inbox becomes so high and that ten minutes
just simply clean up those thoughts.
So we have a much more calm situation.
And that's one of the powerful way, because that's the way we have energy go up and we can bring the
energy up, and we can put that high energy to drag down our negativity, suppress it.
And we have a better mental model for talking about others.
It's a really bad ways of busying ourselves, talking other people, talking about things, the people
who are a little better than cheap people.
They will talk about other people, and the people who are really big people will have a big mindset
and successful.
They will talk about ideas, problems, products.
So this is the thing the people who are really busy about talking about other people, they're not really
cheap.
They're probably professionals.
Do the worst that happen is through that process, just simply pass each other toxicity.
So it's like an example, five people sitting down in the same sofa and they have been drinking poison
to destroy each other at the same time.
It's very normal.
I can fall off in this situation right now.
And my goal is to institute my I want to get out from that conversation as fast as possible, because
all I want, I don't want to get my glass full of toxic and poison, which will be in my stomach and
brain in a while, and I'm going to run through a negativity.
I want to talking about synergy, how we can work together.
How can I deal with that?
How can I deal with the problem?
Can we bring our brains together to solve that problem?
Can we put out all the idea together to build a new product and solutions?
Can we work together?
Can we stop arguing about it?
Can we build something amazing?
Can we take the next step together, forward?
That's the thing is about building synergy.
So that's the mental model is about rather than focusing, talking about other focus, about building
great synergy.
And I know it's hard.
It was hard for me years back to.
But when I keep doing it over and over and over, it becomes a muscle.
And like an example, when you go to the gym and we build ourselves, we have a bigger muscle and that
makes us stronger.
The same way about mental, this productivity ah, really works like a muscle.
The more we use this principle, the better we become.
Five.
Avoiding the hard thing.
This is a terrible way.
A lot of people love to do the easy thing first, and they're really busy about doing all the easy things.
And that's why all the hard things in at the last.
So normally when we start about doing something, we have a high energy and high enthusiasm.
So we've been doing all the easy thing right now.
The more we keep doing the things, our enthusiasm go down and energy level go down to is exactly like
a battery.
Our human body is exactly like the same, like the battery too.
So now in the beginning we've been doing all the easy work.
Right?
With.
And we're burning high energy and high enthusiasm for now.
Our energy goes down and then all the work is become harder.
Who needs high energy and high enthusiasm?
So what do you have?
It's like we're looking like a Lilliput looking at a big monster in front of us.
Right?
So what do we do?
We give up, we run away, we leave it for the next day.
And that is a great formula to make our self-esteem down.
It makes us believe that I'm a quitter.
I cannot do this.
My ability is so less, but actually not just did not utilize in the right way to.
So the goal is about how do we start with the hardest thing first, focusing on the hardest thing,
and I can do the hardest thing.
I personally love doing the hardest thing.
When I'm working in a team, I want to pick the hardest thing who don't want to do.
And I love to doing this one.
And this is something I have learned.
Seeing this on a lot of amazing people do that, including Elon Musk is one of them too.
You probably want to say, how do I build this mental model?
I would like to recommend one book.
Check out the book called Eat the Frog.
It's a famous book.
It's a really amazing line.
The name eat the frog first when there is a lot of bad food into it.
Tweet about eat the frog first.
Eat the hardest one first.
The thing you don't want to do first.
Do it first, get it off.
And it gives us amazing energy back because wow, I can do that hardest thing that build confidence,
self-esteem and also giving me enthusiasm to do the next one.
Oh, I have already killed the big boss already.
The next one.
Hey, we'll win them.
We'll just slaughter them out in a minute.
So that's kind of created great momentum to.
But yes, in the beginning hardest one probably take a longer period of time.
But as long we use our highest energy and high enthusiasm, we have a high chance to win and forward.
So there you go.
You got the five principle, which you can use to connect your mental productivity to as well to.

--- Vision Crafting Blueprint: Solve Motivation and Clarity Issues in Team as leader ---

After working different billion dollar businesses and running the transformation as a chief information
officer or CIO, or even founding the group and doing all kind of building this organization from the
from the scratch.
One of the biggest realization in my heart about vision is this A leader's vision is a lighthouse that
guide the team through challenges, make it clear, compelling, and actionable for the whole team.
And that's why vision crafting going to be one of the key fundamental skill sets as a leader.
We are really, really important when we are working and driving our businesses right now in this Vuca
world.
It's going to be such an important factor.
And in this session, I'm going to package this skill set to you so you know how to do the vision crafting
for yourself.
And not only that, I'm going to also give you the right skill set tools and templates in the resource
sections of this session or the description section.
So you can just download it.
And then you can do this activity with your team as well too.
And how to do it I'm going to tell you step by step in this session as well too.
So stick with me.
It's going to be a very interesting aspect.
So the first thing we talk about what is the expected outcome, what are the things you're going to
learn from this session.
So from this session I'm going to give you the skill set.
So you can use that skill set to make the leader and execute.
You become more confident in articulating a clear and inspiring vision.
So you can do it for yourself.
And then you can do it for your team who are reporting to you or working on your team too.
Number two is about it's going to help you to improve the strategic thinking and communication skill
in your team.
The third thing is going to be enhanced team motivation.
How often do we hear about it that oh my team is not motivated.
This is what's going to solve your motivation problem.
How often you heard about oh what is where are we going.
We don't know.
I mean, why are we doing all these those things because there is an alignment issues with their aligned
goals and their team goals and the company goals, and that's going to be solved by utilizing this activity
as well and going to be really aligned with business goals moving forward.
So these are the three things we're going to be an outcome for you and you.
This is the thing you can utilize with a vision crafting exercise, which I'm going to show you.
I'm going to run you through and transfer this skill to you.
I'm going to give you the resources and the tools and templates and resource sections.
You can just download it and you can get it going.
And I'm telling you right now, the first step of doing this one is about you going to do it for yourself,
and then you're going to do it for the whole team.
And here's the thing to do it for the whole team.
You don't need to do it for a two days workshop, not a day workshop.
It's not going to be half day workshop.
It's going to be just one hour thing because and to get the one hour running everything, every resource,
every skill sets, I'm going to give it to you because I'm resources in the description section, skill
set I'm transferring you to you, from me to you through this session.
So what is the science behind of it?
When you talk about this vision, why the vision is so important?
Because there's a clear science behind it and it's coming from neuroscience.
So there is a research coming out clearly saying this on leaders and executives with a compelling vision
activate the brain's reward center, increasing team motivation and engagement.
It's directly to that connect to the neuroscience of the human.
So the source is coming from all the research coming from Journal of Business Research.
And the key fact is about dopamine.
We get dopamine.
We love dopamine as a human we love dopamine and animal a lot of animals love dopamine too.
And that's one of the reasons we love smartphone, because social media platform give us a lot of dopamine
to.
And there's a lot of talk about dopamine too.
But we can use dopamine for for good sake as well too.
And this is why, as a leader, we need to utilize the dopamine.
A strong vision boosts dopamine level, which enhances motivation, learning and decision making.
And that's the bingo part.
So we got to use vision to extract high levels of dopamine to our team members and to ourselves.
So we always feel motivated and we become winning because when we successful together as a team, we
win as well too.
More more dopamine coming into it.
That's right.
So now how to do that thing.
So I'm going to show you five steps.
This is the way you need to do.
The first step will be crafting your vision.
The second step is about pairing your sharing.
And then the third step is about reflecting and reinforcement.
This is an individual work.
And then we go to the group reflection group work.
And then we will have some time to do some post activities.
Also a group work too.
So stay with me because I'm going to give you step by step guidelines on how you can complete from zero
one, which is basically crafting your vision to zero five, which is your post activity, and I'm going
to get you ready in this mastermind session.
You excited, right?
Of course you do.
So now let's move to the first thing, step one, which is craft your vision.
So let me ask you a question.
What is the difference between a leader and a follower?
What comes to your mind?
Let's take a couple of minutes or even a few seconds to think about it.
If you want to pause the lecture right now, do that one and just write down what are the three things
pop up in your mind?
All right, so you probably found your word.
It's the one of the fundamental things different is number not the position.
It's not the status.
But it's also the most importantly having the vision.
The leader has the vision.
And the vision is so exciting that everybody wants to go through that vision.
Because without vision, there is no leaders, because leaders is ultimately going to inspire everyone
to follow through because everyone says, I want to be part of that exciting journey.
And as you are leader here, so you really need to first build the vision.
But now, as a lot of people talk about, oh, how do we get the vision right?
I mean, leaders probably get the vision itself.
So let me ask you another question.
How do a leader make a compelling vision that everybody are just magnetized with that thing?
Think about that.
Martin Luther King of us.
How did he revolutionize or American culture and society or George Washington?
How did he turn all the different states become the United States of America?
It's all about having a vision, right?
But now, like we talk about that, how did they get that vision?
Let's come to your mind.
How do a leader get a compelling vision.
Any idea?
Let's take a few seconds to think about it again.
If you want to pause a lecture right now, you can do that one and write it down whatever is in your
mind.
And we'll we'll talk you through.
Okay, here's the point.
A leader only has a compelling vision because they thought about it.
They imagine about it, they manifest about it, and they practice it about it.
They work in a document about it.
They just do not put it in the head inside that one.
They wrote it down.
They believe in that one too.
And that's how they finally they had a compelling vision which is practical, achievable, but also
at the same time challenging enough to inspire other people to part of their journey.
So now that sounds like a very hard work, right?
It's challenging.
Right?
But now I'm going to make it really easy for you how you can make an individual vision as a leader.
So everybody is excited about it and be part of you.
So here's the thing.
There is a one habit always helped me in my life is about having the end in the mind.
So that means we don't stop anything.
We don't destroy anything.
It's not that thing.
There's a lot of people misunderstand that thing.
It's about what is the result I want, and then plan that accordingly in the backward.
So most people plan forward to go to the result.
But the successful people successful leader, they first set the ultimate outcome.
And then they set the step ladder down to how to achieve that or arrive there, that goal.
So that's the thing.
This is what it is.
The first thing you need to think about.
Imagine the first.
What is the future of your team in your organization in five years is going to look like.
So that's the first box we're going to look into it.
And that's why this tool is so valuable for you.
It's in the resource section.
Download it and you can work together with me by pausing that lecture with me.
And you can keep filling up as well too.
Or you can finish this mastermind and you can do that as well.
But I typically encourage you pause the this lecture during the mastermind session and fill this up.
So end of this mastermind, you have it ready at least the first version ready.
And then you can iterate and make it a cracking good one.
Okay.
So what does that mean?
So when you do this on the first question you need to ask about what do you want to achieve?
Because a team need a, an outcome, a a need a productive impact into the company or the industry or
the customer pays.
So you need to write down what do you want to achieve.
Let's say example one of the achieve of our online program is about we want to train, let's say 50,000
students or or we want to coach 50,000 mentees every month.
That's kind of goal.
We set it up so this is something we want to achieve.
So now I want you to pause this mastermind and fill it up and get back to me.
Okay.
The next question we're going to do is about what impact will your team have on the customer, industry
and the society?
So until now, what do you want to achieve?
It sounds like more like a more generic right now, right?
It could be for yourself.
It could be for a company.
It could be for particular thing.
But this is not directly coming for this customer industry in society.
Because as a leader, you're you're not holding a position because you are amazing.
You're holding a position because you can serve better.
You can lead a team forward to better, better contribution.
Make this world a better place.
Make the customer smile by solving their pain points or change the industry.
So what is the impact?
You're looking for it.
So write it down.
So now I want you to pause the video and get back to me as soon as you're done.
Okay.
Welcome back.
The third question we're going to go through is about how will you team cultivate?
Culture will evolve because in the beginning, right now, maybe you have a team of two or 3 or 5 or
even ten.
Doesn't matter.
It may increase the number, or it may even reduce the number because this is the best time ever.
Everybody starts to realize this one.
It doesn't take a lot of people or a team member to become $1 billion business, because we have so
many additional advantages right now.
We have company can have a brand that used to be a big advantage, but now we have technology, we have
AI and so many other factors into the ground available already.
So what is the culture look like?
So typically I like to set the culture every a year at least a review milestone.
So if you're going for five years I want you to think about your company cultures.
Three words which will describe your company culture.
You write it down like an example.
If it's 2025, you write it down for 2025.
Let me just make this font slightly bigger.
2025 and you just write down three words and then you go down to zero two, 20, 26.
And you write down three years.
Always start on the present year if you feel like it makes sense for you.
Start with the previous year because you want to follow through.
It's also a smart idea.
You can do that as well too.
So now I want you to pause this mastermind.
Fill it up.
Five years with three keywords will represent your culture.
If you feel like that, you don't want to break it down with every year, you don't want to.
With three words, you can write down a sentence as well too.
It's not a limiting factor, I'm telling you.
I'm just giving you an instruction so you can get it ready.
At least your first version ready, and then you can process in your brain and make it an incremental,
incremental improvement and make it incredible as well.
Okay.
So now let's pause the video.
Let's get this answer done and get back to me in a few minutes.
Okay.
So welcome back.
So now we're going to move to the next part.
Write your vision statement in a storytelling frame format.
So why do we story right.
Think about those old age.
Our parents used to tell us the story in a bedtime when you used to be a little kids.
And those stories were so incredible.
But now it's not about the bedtime only.
But now, if you go around every incredible speech we hear about every incredible Ted talk, we talk
about it always had a story, an incredible story to have.
So now you have a vision.
But if you don't compelling enough.
The number one thing is not compelling enough because there is not inspiring story behind of it.
So you got as a leader, you need to make it inspiring as well too.
And one of the easiest ways you can make it inspiring by adding storytelling.
And that's the thing I'm going to coach you right now.
So two factor you need to focus about.
The first factor is about use emotional language to make it inspiring.
Humans are humans.
You are not trying to connect with AI to become a leader.
Of course you will do.
You will give them a comment, right?
So normally, typically a leader come in and push through different comments to the team members.
That's why the leader is often not treating their team members as human.
They're treating them as a robot.
Because we have been seeing all this great story of armed forces army over there.
Everybody wear the same uniform.
It's like we strip down all the differences and now everybody is like a robot.
But now if you're watching this one, you are most likely not a robot or you are not a robot and you
are not in the army and even your army.
Adding this inspiration language will make your army even to the next level.
So that is the difference between one other thing.
If you just make a difference between the Seal Navy, which is one of the best armed forces and just
a standard armed forces.
What is the difference?
Because one of them is super charged.
They are not only super skilled, but they are also emotionally very charged.
They know why they're doing it and why it matters.
Right?
So that's why you're going to use an emotional language to make it inspiring.
The other factor is about focus on values, goals, and the transformational journey.
So one of the vision statements I always talk about my personally I talk about is this essay I'm going
to share with you.
As an example, I want to train 1 million professionals by 2035.
And that's something inspire me.
And that's something that get me up in the body every morning from the bed, and we get going and take
the thing done.
And that's exactly the reason I'm here, making this mastermind with you.
That's exactly the reason I'm coming on and talking to my teams.
And that's why I'm driving forward, and that's why I'm telling my teams and telling my partners.
And that's why they want to work with me.
Because it's an it's something we want to make it happen.
We want to make an impact.
So my typical goal will be try to keep your money and monetary things away from these sessions.
You can put your finance and money factors in the other side in the in the first part of it, but in
this part it should be purely emotional and transformational journey.
Okay, so now I want to pause this mastermind, fill it up and get back to me in a few minutes.
All right.
Welcome.
Done.
You have done it right now.
So now we're going to move to the next part.
The next part is about crafting our vision.
So now we're going to continue.
Continue filling a few other things.
So now I want to think about.
Improve it right now.
So you had a first version already.
Right.
So I'm going to give you a little more example to make it even better.
So here is an example.
I'm going to tell you right now of how you can tell a great story.
Yes, I coached you in a very simple way in a previous slides because I want you to think through.
I don't want to give you the liver upfront because you are amazing.
You have a lot of incredible things.
So now I'm going to give you an example that will that will be a great example for you.
So this is an example of this inspiring storytelling format.
In 2028, our team will be recognized as the most innovative and customer centric department in our
industry.
We will empower clients to achieve their goals through cutting edge solutions and a culture of continuous
learning and empathy.
Our success will be rooted in shared values of trust, collaborations, and relentless drive to make
a positive impact.
So that's the inspiring emotional language version of a story.
So now I want to pause the video right now, improve your story, and get back to you in a few times.
Two minutes.
All right.
Take your 5 or 10 minutes.
It doesn't matter.
Improve your story because this is going to be a very important one, because this board is going to
be like your one of the core of your leadership.
You could change someone from sleeping to running because you have built on some incredible vision.
And that's the part I'm trying to coach you up in this one.
And I'm telling you right now, I will never stop until you get to that level.
So just listen to me.
Pause the video right now, prepare the story and get back to me in a few minutes.
All right.
Well done.
Now, when the 15 minutes done.
Now it's going to be the step number two.
So it's going to be craft your vision PR feedback activity.
So in this aspect is about goal is to about PR the team up.
If you have four people in your team put them in the two.
So there will be two pairs.
If your team of ten, there will be five because there will be only two.
But if you have a lot more people, it's more than ten.
Then you can put them 3 in 1 team.
It's also right because you want to manage the time in this aspect is about.
The second thing you will do is about take turns to presenting each of the team's vision.
You give the maximum three minutes period of time.
If you have a lot of pair, you can even drop it to two minutes to not a problem.
And then the task will be provide feedback on on partners.
Using this guideline questions everyone.
After presenting, other team members need to give feedback.
Particularly other pairs should give feedback.
So how to give the feedback.
So this is the thing instruction is your vision clear and inspiring.
So the feedback should be on that one.
So let's say example pair number one just present it.
And then after peer number one presenting the pair two will give feedback based on this question.
Is it clear and inspiring.
They will say a feedback.
Okay, how much inspiring it is and and why it is inspiring.
And if it's not inspiring, you've got to say that why it is not inspiring.
The second question what does it align to the team's core values and the goals?
And there will be feedback on that one.
And the third one will be is there a compelling storytelling element in the story which they just told
on this aspect?
Even they can say what is missing in that story as well too.
And and they're going to fill it out as well too.
So now when one team is presenting, the other pairs need to fill it up this document, and then they
have to share this one after the team has been presented their thing.
And then this is a beautiful part.
So when another pair give the team to feedbacks then we move to the step number three.
Because now it's time for each of the team to reflect on and reinforcement.
So first reflect on the feedback you received.
So let's an example.
If I'm belonging to team number one let's say we call it team number one.
Pair one.
And then I have two more pairs.
So two other pairs give me feedback.
And I received it.
And I'm going to reflect in this manner and write down the final version of my vision statement.
So after getting the feedback I actually can go back to this document.
And basically I can duplicate the slide and I can just refill and readjust into it too.
So now how to reflect in this one.
Right.
So this is the thing I'm going to give you something about.
So add emotional appeal.
Add more emotional appeal is missing that one.
Add more.
Number two is about ensure alignment with the team's values.
It's really important.
And each of the feedback can help me on each of the pair to to close the gap of that alignment.
And the third thing is about clarity, um, key goals and milestones.
Like if anything missed out in a milestone, it's not going to happen.
Like if you don't know how to see where it is, there's no way you can make it happen too, Right.
So that's why each of the team members need to see the milestones.
And this is the part team often does it wrong and misunderstood it.
They're not well aligned.
So that's why the feedback is there.
If you are a manager of the team, you can step out of the team and also can give you feedback as well
too.
And that is one of the great way to get them well aligned.
And that's what we want right.
Because you want to drive this leadership 4.0 skill set.
And you're utilizing the vision crafting exercise to drive the team forward and building that, that
kind of dopamine factor in your team so they can get more things done and getting more achieve more
and more your goal and achieve more success and handle with much more confident and much more motivated
way.
All the different challenges on the way because there's a lot of roadblocks there, right?
And that's the way to get out of the roadblock and making it successful.
All right.
So now step number four.
So after getting this tongue is about craft your vision group reflection.
It's time for all the group to sit down together and reflect the session to.
And basically it's going to be 15 minute session where each of the.
The team member will talk about that.
What did they learn from this exercise?
It's very important to do reflection.
And the second thing is about how you can align your vision with your team's daily work and long term
goals, daily works and long term goals.
Write it down there.
And the third thing is about what action will you take to communicate with your team vision effectively.
Because communication is the key.
Because one of the major reason the visions died and the team failed is because there was a lack of
communication, lack of understanding, lack of empathy, lack of alignment in the team too.
So tell them to write it down.
And the last one is about is an optional one.
Compare the key takeaways from the discussion and share the document.
It's good to do it if you have one.
Ask one of your team member to become a volunteer and basically compose all of them in one document,
and then you can send it out to all the team members so everybody can have it.
And then, like I said, the best way of doing this one that every two months or every quarter, at
least do this exercise.
And before you do that next exercise, send that last session document to every one of them at least
two days ago and tell them to look into it in detail.
So they had to have the right reflection and ready for the next session, too.
And you do the exactly the same thing.
You don't have to invent that one to you.
Just use the last session's takeaway to the next sessions and use that one too.
And that's why that shared document where you put down everybody's in one shared document is really,
really valuable.
Going to be useful too.
All right.
Step four is done.
So the next one is about step the next one.
So craft your vision.
Key takeaways.
And this is where you got to become an an assess the work of the team have done.
So there are three things I like to do.
You can add more if you want to.
And this is only for yourself as you are doing it for your team.
The first thing about a compelling vision activities the brain's reward system enhancing motivation
and engagement.
How much this thing is successful from this activity you read it.
0 to 10 zero means is absolutely failed and and ten means it did absolutely excellent work.
Read yourself into that number.
Number two is about storytelling.
Makes a vision more relatable and memorable.
Was it successful from your session?
Read it.
Zero means absolutely did not happen.
Ten means excellently happen.
Put the number.
And the third thing is about aligning the vision with the team values, ensuring authenticity and sustainability.
Is it successful?
0 to 10.
If it's completely fail.
Put it zero.
It's absolutely successful.
Put it ten into it.
And now when you have all the numbers, let's say five, seven, ten.
If the whole number is less than 15, I suggest you you redo this activity in next four weeks period
of time because it not become enough efficient yet, and you are just new and you're just getting into
it like more you do, the better you become, right?
So practice this four weeks later and you will have a better score if you do.
Third time, you definitely have a much better score.
So if less than 15 is good to do, if it's less than ten, you should definitely do it in four weeks.
But if it's more than 15, it's good you can do it the next session in two months or even three months
later.
Quarterly kind of thing.
And now you have done all this thing.
And this is the thing is very important.
Most of the leaders, this is where they make mistake.
They do the thing and it's fail after that.
And number one reason it failed because they don't do the proper follow ups.
And that's why I'm going to give you this document to do a proper key takeaway follow ups.
So I'm not going to do a lot of thing.
I'm going to give you three things, and I want you to design the right actions to make it happen after
the session.
So first one, communicate your vision to your team within the next seven days.
What action are you going to do?
Are you going to do a calendar block?
Are you sending an email, or are we going to do and remind them in the next team meeting?
Write it down in your actions.
I'll just give you a few example.
The next one is about gather feedback from your team and adjust your vision as needed.
So the problem there is a lot of things coming on.
As a leader.
You also need to learn from their activities too, because it's actually giving you lots of valuable
inputs where the team thinking what is the team feeling about the vision, how they are looking into
it?
You're getting all of it through the session too.
So what action you are taking to making your vision even more clear and more adjust whatever you're
doing right now.
You write it down.
Maybe you want to adjust that part.
Maybe you want to add more number into it.
Maybe there is adding more emotion into it.
Put it in action into it.
And the third thing is about identify the specific actions your team can take to move forward the future
state of the vision.
This is very important because you cannot make a vision happen.
It's always a team game.
You need to get the team working with you to, and that's what it comes leadership to.
And that's exactly why the vision crafting is so important as a leader to your team.
And that's what is really needed in this very much Vuca.
You can say, or you can call it a transformative world.
It's so much crucial.
And this is something one of the fundamental skillset.
That's why for a leader to become successful in any organization as a, as a professionals in corporate
or startup or as a founder or in a startup doesn't matter.
It's everywhere.
It matters too.
And here we go.
I have done all these five steps to you.
I have already given you the materials.
So this material, what you're showing right now, you don't have to pre-produce anything.
Download it from the description section of this session or the resource section of this coaching session,
and you have already learned how to run it through.
If it's not clear to you, let's go back to this session and rewatch it one more time and you can get
it as well too.
And then in the very next week, don't wait for a long period of time.
You have seen this lecture next week.
Period of time.
You run the session with your team and like I said, one hour.
You don't need to book a long period of time and all the five things.
The 1 to 4 will be done in one hour period of time.
If you feel like you want to go a little slow, your team is not really mature enough.
You can go extend it to 1.5 hour, but that will be enough for you.
You got the skills, you got the resources.
Now it's time for you to make it happen for your team because you are going to be in the next leadership
4.0 skill set.
Successful leader.
And I cannot wait to give you the biggest clap in the room and I will see you the next coaching session.

--- What can you achieve from this module 4? ---

We wanted to lead ourselves.
So the previous module was all about helping you.
How you can start to have a good grip about yourself as a leader so you can lead yourself.
So in this module is going to be all about how you can excel yourself, how you can scale out on factor
two.
And when you want to scale our own factor.
The one fundamental factor to start with is about how do we use our mental power more.
So most of us always use the mental power against us.
So how often we hear like that?
We people talk about the things like the victim of themselves.
So there is a one line always talk about is about we often very afraid about the people who want to
rob us in the alley, but how about those thief who lives in our mind and also stealing all the energy
and also the desire for life as well too?
So that is why the mental power optimization is one of the very fundamental factor which we need to
use to excel ourselves.
And that's the thing we'll cover in this module.
When we're excelling our mental power, we also can use the external factor to excel ourselves.
And that leads to personal brand.
So that's why in this module we'll also type into this one how we can build a personal brand around
us.
So which will help us to propel and excel ourselves better as a leader as well too.
And this is the whole module will be packaging all together that on how you can work on hands on hand,
but very efficient way and very effective way with putting less amount of effort.
And you can create a compound effect always in your favor.
So you can always have this advantage of excelling yourself and get your result, and to the next level
of your journey as a leader in a smoother and easier way, with a less costly approach as well too.
So what are you waiting for?
Let's get started in this module so you can start excelling your leadership ability to lead yourself.

--- What is Next? - Level Up Your Meeting Driving Skillset To Get More Done ---

You must be running meetings or you are in the meetings.
So all those meetings are important.
Let's take a look in these four insights to see what actually happened in your meeting.
So first let's talk about your personal development.
The first insight I want to talk about linking to research.
And this one, the professionals who are having right meeting skill.
There are 35% more likely to get promoted into their job in two years period of time, compared to the
other peers who are not.
There is another insights coming out from the center of creative leaders.
They say this one the leaders or executives who have a meeting skills they have around 30 to 35% more
higher likelihood to get a higher salary into their works too.
So so what do you think about your meeting skill?
Do you have a great skill or are you leaving the promotion and the salary on the table?
Until now, we talk about personal settings, but how about for the business and the company?
So for this one, I want to share with you this insight.
We reported that one innovation is the key to thrive forward into this business world right now.
So the where the company has an executives or managers or leader who have a great meeting skills, they
have 25% higher growth rate compared to their peers.
And not only that, they are also up to 25 to 35% faster.
Introduce new product and services into the market as well too.
So now the question is about should we learn how to run effective meetings?
I believe that one.
Every leader, every manager and every executive should have the skill set of running effective meetings.
And the meetings is about getting things done.
So now the question is about how is that possible?
I became a manager at the age of 23, in a foreign country.
I became a senior manager at the age of 25, and I became a head of department and director at the age
of 29, and I was leading a 160 people team national wide.
At the same time, I was also leading a non-profit, which I founded over 300 to 400 people at the time
as well too.
And through that process, I have run so far ten thousands of meetings, without any doubt.
So the purpose of this meeting is this is to about achieving the goals on time and create a remarkable
outcome for the organization which established my teams as one of the superstar teams in the organization.
And over and over and over, I'm flexing all this number to make a point.
That one.
How did I do that?
Was there a magic?
Actually, there was no magic into it.
So what I was doing is about I was spending hundreds of hours learning about this meeting skill, and
I was applying, and I'm improving my ability to run better meetings which get the things done for the
organization.
I was reading books, hundreds of them.
I was taking different online courses, I was getting mentors, I was getting advices.
And one of the things I was doing this on everything I was learning, I would immediately apply on my
meeting ability and was measuring that on how I'm improving or how I'm going behind and what is the
better outcome.
Am I producing or not?
And so it was like a learn and apply feedback and improve.
This is the cycle I was running through.
So in that leadership, what I was doing is that I was just improving myself with all the skill set
so I can produce greater level of effectiveness and productivity for my team and do all the skills in
my skill set.
One of the very vital skill was for me is to build the ability to run effective meeting, to getting
things done.
So by utilizing this powerful tool called meeting, I can lift people up.
I can save the people from falling behind from the goals and objectives, build up a great level of
engagement inside the team and also save the overall team from the poor performer who has a bad attitude
and at least give them few chances to improve and also save the overall team from that person who actually
not able to perform.
So the question is about how do I do that over and over?
So let's talk about this.
How often do we hear things like this?
Meetings are a waste of time.
Meetings are boring.
It's just a one more time.
We just throw it away from our day.
We don't know what is the objective, why we are having this meeting or statement like example, or
we don't know what we are actually doing in the team or things like our teamwork is not good enough.
These are all the signs that the manager and the leader and the executive in the organization, don't
have the right skill set or run an effective meetings.
So it's an expertise gap.
So meeting skills become highly effective when we lead people who directly report to us.
So you know, in a normal company setting right now, most of the time we lead projects with a cross-functional
team, and most of the time almost all the team members doesn't actually report to us.
But we need to have the skill sets to get anything done and help the project to achieve its objective
to.
And that's why the meeting skill becomes so handy.
How?
Because meeting is a great place to assign goal to the team members or the project team, and then also
hold them accountable with the result as well too.
That's why running effective meetings and getting things done is actually a very powerful skill.
During my learning, one of the key thing I realized this one is about learning needs to be fun and
we need to feel good about what we are learning about.
that's why I packed all my learning on reading scale in a fun and feel good manner into this program.
Meaning 4.0.
This program is going to multiply your ability to run effective meetings and getting things done.
And it's going to save a lot of your time compared to any other source you are going to use to learn
this skill.
Let me unpack this one more thing.
This is not just an online course where you watch video and you just learn by yourself.
For me, learning alone is often not fun.
So in this program, you will have an exclusive access to a paid community for six months long.
And in this community, one of the best parts about any kind of particular challenge you are facing,
any progress you are making, you are going to make a course into that community and you can get an
advice from me and also from all the other community members.
So these communities are not just a place where you come and ask questions, but it's also giving advices,
giving inputs, running polls, all those things you will be doing.
And plus on top of it, I will be sharing quite regularly different kind of advanced tools and templates
and approaches and ideas into the community as well too.
So like I said, it's a paid community and a membership fees is around 200 to $150 every month right
now, but this is already included inside your course fee right now for six month exclusive access to
you.
I clearly understand one thing your network is your net worth.
So now one of the best advantages for you is you can utilize your community.
You can give an input, you can answer other people ideas.
And this way you get an idea how of things, how it's looking like on the show as well too.
And through this one you accumulate more skills and through this one you create more friends and you
expand your networks.
And that's why I say this one, you expand your net worth as well.
Learning from other mistakes is a great thing, but also learning from other problems is also a great
thing too.
So now when you are learning alone, we just only see the world in our own eyes.
But now, when we see how other people are facing and seeing this world in a different way, and that
is a great leverage for us to learn things faster and deeper, and that's what you're going to get by
seeing all the different posts, by answering different other challenges problem into the into the community
so you can learn faster.
And it brings your level of skill set and depth of understanding even better.
Okay.
Whenever I'm learning a particular skill, often I have my own very personal issue, and sometimes I
cannot share it with some other people directly into the community.
And another thing is about sometimes I will want to have my own personalized call so I can have a direct
inputs on my specific challenges as well too.
And that's why I prefer having a one on one conversation with my trainer and coach to expand my practical
skills as well.
And here's the thing.
You have a one on one session with one included with me in this session writing to you so you have access
to the calendar and you can book a particular time slot, and you can have that one on one call with
me, and you can actually have the one on one call live with me.
It's not a recording.
It's going to be a live session with me where we'll be talking about your particular challenge.
Not only that, I will be also briefing you and preparing you how you can prepare yourself for that
one on one conversation with me so you can make the best out of it.
Normally, my fees to have a one on one conversation is around $500 to $400, and this is already included.
This is one on one session, so you don't have to pay any additional fees to have this conversation
with me in this program.
24.01 of the part of this thing is about is if I want to learn something, learning from the slide is
often not as effective.
This is how often we learn in high school.
We learn in universities too.
So for me, I want to I can learn somebody by having a great conversation with them and seeing my eye
into their eye to seeing this program.
I'm having a lot of productive conversation with you.
I'll be having discussion with you and will give you different case study with you.
I'm going to give you different resources, templates, downloadable thing, and we'll be running things
about assessment too.
So you'll be able to easily having all the things.
How would you need to do to build your skill set.
And through that whole process I'll be transferring the skill to you.
And here's the thing.
You always have an access for six months for community.
And also you have always have access to all those templates, tools and resources too, so you can receive
the skill in the program, and then you can keep using those skills to even level up your skill set.
Because for me, I believe that skill is a highly scalable factor.
So you can always use all those materials like you mentioned is tools, templates, community resources
to keep scaling up your skill set through this program.
Too often we find out in our career building authority is important Also, building credibility is really
important too.
Like for example, if you're looking for a new job, if you're looking for your referees, everybody
looking for what you have done who actually talked positively about you too.
And that's something I want to add value on you, because I've seen a lot of professionals are facing
this problem.
They don't have that social proof to show what they have done and what they actually belong to, because
everything is their own mind and on head.
Right.
So an interviewer or a recruiter often cannot see it.
So in this program, as long you finish the program 100% and you make a pose of announcement into this
community, I'm going to give you a personal recommendations to you into your LinkedIn profile publicly.
So anybody, any recruiter who can see the recommendation letter from me and will be able to utilize
and build more credibility and more authority for you so you can make a distinction compared to any
other candidate.
So also trying to pursue that career position or the promotions you are looking for.
So one of the biggest problems of online courses many of the learners cannot understand are the learning.
Are they making progress?
I'm completely obsessed about one thing.
I want to transfer this skill from me to you.
So this is the why I have to provide you a multiple assessment tool, which you will be running through
the program to see how you're progressing, and you also using the tool to see how you have done before
and how you are after finishing these courses as well too.
And this is how I'm going to see the difference you make in your skill sets, so you can bring more
values to your organization or the project you're working on, and move forward to successful journey
forward.
So all this value is packaged together to this exclusive, very valuable program.
I have built it up for you.
So for you and you can utilize it, use it as a lever to move up in your career and your life and become
more and more successful.
So what are you waiting for?
Let's get started.

--- What will you achieve from module 5? ---

We we could be a first time manager or we could be in a long time manager.
But we often face one thing.
It's called new manager.
How does it work?
Right.
So let's say for example, if you are promoted first time manager, you're a new manager of course.
But you already be a manager for several years, but you could become still a new manager because you
could move up in your organization and then you become a completely new manager requirement on you.
Or you can leave the job and join another organization, and you still face the one thing.
You become a new manager in the organization too.
So now how to be really successful, to be a new manager into it in your journey or you want to excel
yourself.
And that one thing is depend is about how you can lead your team.
So in this module I'm going to give you seven principle of leadership, which can help you every time
you want to be a new manager or a new leader in your organization, your present organization in a next
level, or you joining another organization as well.
Also, when you are leading your team, it's one thing you need to drive.
Always in your organization is about how you can drive the higher level of productivity in your team
and when you are driving the higher level of productivity, the one thing you always need to spin on
is about priority.
And that is not a quarterly priority.
It's not a monthly priority.
It's about weekly priority.
It's about daily priority because it often change evolve updates.
So as a manager, always need to be on top of how to manage the priority of the team in a daily basis.
And in this module, I'm going to give you the tools and resources and guidelines so you'll be able
to do that later.
All you need to do one thing is called ensuring the result.
It's nothing else ensuring the result to the organization.
And to do this one.
Like I said, leader need to drive productivity.
But how do we drive the productivity?
So and it depends also in other side about how the leader providing the feedback and giving coaching
ability to get people putting up, not putting down.
So this is the module.
You will also learn about all these tools, materials and factors.
I'm going to give it to you so you can utilize to coach people, drive people forward and making them
prepare so they can produce better outcome with you together.
So your team turn into a winning teams since 2021, post Covid 19 period of time, we are facing this
one.
We are working in a hybrid environment, so as a leader, we also have to have the right skill set to
drive a hybrid team for working from anywhere, not just in the office anymore.
So in this module, all these tools are also packaged for you, so you can take the advantage of it
and Excel leadership ability.
So what are you waiting for?
Let's get started for the first lesson of this module and I will see you there.

--- What will you achieve from module 6? ---

Leader need to do one thing.
Getting thing done.
Because that getting thing done.
Make sure that a leader can produce an outcome for the organization.
So how do getting things done to getting things done?
Leader has to have one tons of skills, right?
A lot of things.
But actually drive back to one fundamental thing.
It's about a tool called meetings.
A leader really need to know how to drive effective meetings, which create results for the organization
and for the teams, and for even all the team members.
To see how often we hear about teams saying, this one meeting is boring, a meeting is a waste of time,
and it drive back to one thing that means the leader of the team doesn't have the right skill set to
drive the meeting, because when the meeting is drive is being driven by a leader who has the right
skill set.
Everybody say, oh, meeting is important.
We want to get things done.
This is the time we want to be.
Well, there's a lot of organization.
Overdo the meetings.
That's another issue.
But the meeting should be an inspiring factor to get people to know what they really need to do and
what they need to drive.
And this is the module is going to equip you how to drive highly effective meetings to getting things
done.
So.
So what are you waiting for?
Let's dive into this module and grab all the skill sets.
So after this module, you'll be ready to create amazing results for the organization by just using
the best tools as a leader you have called meeting.
So let's see you in the first episode.
So what are you waiting for?
Let's start the first session and I'll see you there.

--- What will you achieve from module 7? ---

As a professional, we spend a lot of time doing one thing.
That means how to get a better job.
And we all know this one.
To get a better job, we need to know how to do a good interview and to do this one.
We all know one thing that means how to become good in the interview session.
And that's why you can get a job offer and we can move up or we can get a better opportunity.
And that's why everybody is learning to do one thing how to how to fake, how to create soft skill,
how to create story to prove themselves how good they are.
But actually they are not that good.
So now what is list?
To them?
It's making a lot more harder from the opposite side of the table that the hiring manager to actually
select the right candidate.
And I want to tell you who is the hiring manager.
So a lot of professionals think that hiring manager is actually from the human resource department.
Actually not.
You are the leader.
You want to recruiting your team member in your organization.
You are the hiring manager.
So that means now everybody is Everybody's learning so much skill, how to be good in the interview
sessions and try to fake their story to prove themselves how good they are.
So that means, as a hiring manager, you need to level up your skill set.
So one of the fundamental research you find out this one, people spend 90% of their time to get good,
to be an interviewee, to improve their interviewing skill, but only spend 5 to 10% of the time to
improve their hiring managers skill set to select the right interview.
So that means a huge amount of hiring manager keep recruiting wrong and also unqualified candidates
into their team.
But that leads to one thing.
If you want to build a great team, you need to hire and recruit them A-players or ten out of ten talent
in your organization.
To do this one, you need a specific skill set to do that one.
Otherwise, you will not be able to identify the right talent to onboarding new team.
And you won't keep onboarding the wrong team members, and which will keep making your team behind what
it should be and what it leads to.
14, leads to a poor result, and poor result leads to a failure as a leader.
So that means it all died.
Back to about how we recruit the right team member in the organization.
And in this module I have a set of visualizations for you which will prepare you how to identify the
right candidates, how to do the right interview sessions with the hiring manager, how to spot the
right talents and how to onboard them in the right way, to how to sell the organization and how to
sell the positions to them.
So you will be able to build a much more better team, because a better team will give you better output,
and better output will make you a better leader.
So that is the fact is about this is why this module is going to be really crucial for you.
Because this module will help you to five x ten x 100 x.
More successful as a leader by just adopting and improving this skill set called Interviewing skill
Set.
As a hiring manager.
So what are you waiting for?
Let's get started and I will see you in the first session of this course.

--- What will you achieve from module 8? ---

My organization hired leaders.
It's about managing people, talking to the people, keeping people together.
There's a lot of uncertainty, but it is actually one fundamental reason.
It's called ensuring the result.
A manager or a leader is being recruited in our team, in an organization, to do one thing, providing
the insurance of the organization so the team produces the right outcome of it.
So, so often people think about that.
Oh, it's just about managing the people, letting people do.
But actually now in this present era, now organizations are expecting most from managers.
The manager needs to be champion in the team.
And without being champion, you cannot make other people to be a champion too.
It's often a story like that, but a manager often doesn't create more followers.
They need to also work on to create more champions in the organizations.
So that's what a poor leader, a poor manager, often create followers.
But a great manager create a lot of champions in the organization as well too.
So to be that position as manager, a leader must know about the organization to to know the organization,
one of the fundamental factors is about how to lead the organization objective into it.
Because if a manager does not know the objective of the organization, they will not be able to understand
where the organization is going and how they can lead the business.
Because end of the day, to create an outcome of any business, someone needs to understand what business
they are in and assume they understand what business they are in and what is the objective aligned to
that business, they will be able to lead the business, and this is why this module is going to be
very crucial for you.
If someone wants to be a lower level in the middle manager level, but as soon they want to move up
in a middle manager level to even like a head of a department, they really need to be really good about
leading their business into it, leading the outcome into it, leading the revenue for the business,
leading the outcome for the business too.
And this is why this module is going to be very crucial for you, because in this module, I have broken
down all the process.
I have given you key fundamental strategy.
We will also dive into mastermind session as well too.
So you can actually really process your business organization.
You can process all those key objectives and you can tie it to your team and your individual objective
to drive an outcome for your organization.
So you will be in a much better position, how you can ensure the result as a leader.
And that will make you a much more better leader moving forward.
So what are you waiting for?
Let's get started with the first lesson of this module and I will see you there.

--- Why Leadership 4.0 is a Game-Changer for Professionals Now? ---

The leadership crisis.
No one talks about.
Let's imagine there are two managers.
One manager has a 25 years of experience, built $1 billion business, and now in a boardroom.
And then the other side, there's another leader who has ten years plus experience and using AI for
everything they do.
Who will win in this situation?
I know the critics will have different answer, but what's your answer?
I want you to pause the video right now and imagine what could be the answer for you.
All right, you got your answer right now.
But now I don't want to say the answer to you, but I want to give you some really handy hints for you
to think critically about this factor.
And let me do this really check with let me do this.
So now I'm going to do a reality check with you with these two key aspects.
The first one is coming from MIT.
MIT found out this 160% executives are not ready to become an AI powered leader moving forward.
The other side PwC giving the second line of movement in the reality check, saying this from the company
who are using AI for their decision making.
They are making three X growth into their revenue compared to their peers who are not using.
Welcome to the leadership 4.0, where the AI data and visualizations are not an optional thing, but
is a fundamental thing for survival of a leader moving forward in this world.
What happened to Kodak, Nokia, and Blockbuster?
Do you know all of these names?
Probably.
You know Nokia.
Probably.
You don't know the other two.
So let me just unpack this one for you.
Kodak invented the digital camera, but did you know they hide the projects and went bankrupt in 2012?
Nokia was dominating with almost 90% market share all over the world.
But did you know wanted to move to smartphone approaches and what happened?
They lost miserably to Apple and outside the blockbuster, who laughed at the Netflix business model?
And what happened to them?
They went out of business in 2010.
The meanwhile, the companies like Amazon, Tesla, Microsoft, they adopted a digital leadership or
leadership 4.0 approaches and they have skyrocketed their success.
So the point is about to get into those companies or even a good companies.
Right now, there's a one fundamental skill an executive or a leader must have is a digital 4.0 skill
sets.
And here's the point.
How can we get it right and moving forward?
In the next coaching session, I'm going to share with you how you can build that leadership 4.0 key
fundamental inside of you so you can thrive forward.


=== Lead Yourself Like a Future-Ready Leader Sprint Challenge ===


--- Discover Your Leadership Identity: Unlocking Your True Potential ---

There was a time people asked one of the famous philosopher that, what is the hardest thing to do in
life?
And the philosopher said this one the most hardest thing to do in life is about knowing yourself and
the moment.
I really hear that one, from the time, my life is completely changed because it's all about how we
can know about more, we can know more about ourselves, the better we can become.
And the exactly the same thing is also applied for our leadership journey.
The more better we can understand ourselves as a leader, the more better leader we can be, because
then we can see who we are and what are the things we need to focus on, and what are the skills that
we need to build on?
What is the soft skill we need to build on, what is the behavior we need to build on, and so on.
So this is the section you can use it in two ways.
One way you can watch the whole lecture and then after the end of the lecture then you can rewatch it
and then you can follow up with me and can listen to me and fill up the templates.
Or the second way is about you can just go to the resource section right now.
Download the template in PPT and then listen to me pause it.
And then you replay it again.
And then you keep filling it up on the way.
And then the lecture is finished.
Then the whole template is ready.
So now let's take a couple of seconds.
I'm going to take a little pause.
Go ahead and resource section and download the template first.
All right.
So you have the template right now.
So now let's jump into the template right.
So the template very first thing is about define what is your present role right now.
What role are we in.
Is it a manager level senior manager level or non manager level or non individual contributor.
What is the title you are.
Write it down.
Let's say example you are a marketing executive example.
All right.
So I'm just just make the screen a little bit bigger easy to to follow up okay.
So marketing executive the next role you want to be is early next year probably Marketing leader example.
She put it on.
So now it could be any of your goal.
You could do it for operations.
You could do a technical role.
You could do a non-technical role.
You could do all kinds of roles.
You can put it on into that one because this is the future role.
What do you want to be next?
Two years is going to be your North Star.
That's the way you want to be.
And this exercise we're going to help both of us do to find out how you're going to get to that role.
So when you look at the template, you can actually notice there are two pages the first page and the
second page.
The first page is about all kind of positive factor you have.
And the second phase, all the negative factors you have about yourself.
And yes, no one is going to criticize you because the only person who can criticize yourself is you
because no one is watching.
So you can just fill it up and you can work on it right now, and I'm going to help you how to work
on it too.
So now going with the first thing is about the first page, we're going to talk about who are you now.
And the first column is about personality and then the skill set.
So I want you to fill it up all the different positive personality you have top five of them in the
personality column.
Such an example.
Your personality is you are always on time.
Always on time.
You just fill it up, just make it bigger, always on time.
And then the second one, probably another one.
You could say this one.
You are ambitious.
Just fill it up.
The same way is about what are the skill sets you have.
Now you need to fill up.
So that's the basically is about column number two where you fill up your skill set.
So let's say first skill set you are a digital social media expert.
Simple.
So now when you say social media expert one of the fundamental thing is about you need to talk about
which political platform.
So let's say example.
The more specific you can become, the better it will be to take the action into it.
So now let's say social media expert.
You are an YouTube expert and you find yourself that you're an expert in multiple channel, let's say
example.
You can even put it on the second one.
Let's say you are an expert about Facebook as well to put on there as well.
Do all these things.
And now this is what is going to be the next thing which is about who you want to be in next three year
period of time.
So I want you to imagine someone who is in your organization, particularly working with you in the
same company or somebody your senior working in another company.
Think about someone in that role.
So like an example in this case we exercising as a marketing leader.
So think about the marketing leader in your company or in your team or somebody you really admire outside
the company.
You just pick one person is the better way to do that one too.
So now now write it down.
What are the top five words really explain their personality.
You fill it up and then all the top five skills you think that you have observed in them, and you fill
it up to you and now you find out A very attractive thing.
Now you find out yourself what are the personality you have or the skills that you have, and what personality
you need to get going to become a marketing leader.
And what is the skill set you need to get to equip yourself, your skill set to get into that.
So that's a really good one page summary where you should be focusing on right now.
And this is the tool going to help you throughout the the courses of this leadership 4.0 to boost your
skill set and your personal development.
Because soft skill is very much related to one thing is your personality.
And then you can build a behavior and you can completely different person into it.
The second page is all about the negative factor.
So what are the first personality factor.
Right now you have which you think you are negative.
Like an example.
Um not prepared in meeting could be one of your personality factor as well too.
Uh, skill set wise.
Could be it could be related to your personality.
Like an example is about you are not able to make effective meeting minute not useful meeting minute
example.
Or it could be another one is about an hour after meeting follow up.
So so another personality could be is about not or well organized.
So now you write it down.
All those are negative personality factor you have in you right now in this pages right now.
So now you have all those five column and now you do the second set of the desired in the next row.
So look at the same person you picked up for your the using the page number one, the same person worded
the five negative personality factor you have observed in that person.
You write it down and then you write it down.
All the different five skill deficits.
Since you have observed in them, you write it down into it.
For example, one of the thing you probably have observed is about not responsive by email could be
one personality thing is about always overbooked.
Could be.
Example.
So fill it up.
So like this.
You fill it.
The reason we're doing this other side of the spectrum, because we just only don't want to put ourselves
in a lot of pressure and then beat ourselves to death.
But actually every side, every person also have their weaknesses as well too.
So we are picking up somebody who really admire and see what are the weaknesses we have.
So now when you just do this thing, the one game changing factor will be is about if if you go to the
page number one and equip yourself all the skill set that person have, and then somehow just make sure
that you don't have those negative personality and those skill set issues.
I mean, you're not expert into it, but you can cover them up.
Then you could become a very good successful marketing manager or the future role you decide about.
And that is the this masterminding game changing factor is about you don't need to beat yourself down,
you just need to build up something which you really need to get to the positions you want to be in
next three years in terms of personality, soft skill, and then also the hard skill to the skill set
as a combine.
If you could acquire all the skill set, you will be able to easily demand that position moving forward.
So you got all those templates.
So now let's go ahead and complete it right now.
And then you can apply to yourself moving forward through the courses.
Because this template is going to be very fundamental block for you.
So don't skip this one.
Complete this one and then continue to the journey with leadership 4.0 and all the best.
And I'll see you in the next lesson.


=== Leading Your team as a modern Leader ===


--- How to set yourself to become successful in Probation Period ---

Congratulations.
You just got a job.
You got got the offer you're looking for.
You got the company, you got the rule.
You got the team.
You got the jobs in C-suite, or as a director or a manager or even an executive.
It doesn't matter.
One of the coolest things you need to pass is the probation period.
The worries in this video, I'm going to give you a total of nine tips, which can significantly help
you out to pass your probation period to take your career forward with this new company.
You want that, right?
So let's get started.
One.
Avoid any argument.
So most of the companies, when they hire a new employee or staff or manager or director, one of the
key things they always ask is that how this person can work with other people in the company, and as
they really want to see that, how this person is working with other people in the company, they get
really wanted to see that one.
Are they getting creating a new, more issues or mess?
Which actually key thing is about agreement and it comes with the ego and nobody wants to have such
kind of people who come to the team and create a friction and fight inside the team.
So don't create arguments in the team.
Avoid the things, understand the problem and paying.
Really understand how you can be part of the team rather than showing you are the best of the team.
So that is one of the crucial mistakes.
As long as you stop showing yourself really showing off, you will be able to be easily adopted one
as a team member.
Number two greater first impression.
When you come into the team, start to work with the different people.
They will go around the office, meet the different people in the company, already have an opportunity
to meet other heads, go ahead and have the great preparation for for these meetings and listen to them
what they are talking about.
Listen to them what the problem they are facing right now.
Create a great first impression so that will help you to get it going and what they are talking about,
and show them that what is your expertise, what you really have done and what are the key things you
are looking for in the role?
Show them how much you really understand your work too.
That will help you to create a great first impression with your team too.
So here's the point.
You need to create a great impression and start with.
Being showing respect.
Because if you don't come into a point of not being really respectful, it will be quite hard for you
to create a great first impression, even if you are the right expertise, right person with the right
profile, and the right experience as well too.
Tip number three measure your progress.
So you probably have a probation period of one month or two months or three months.
Whatever period of time is there.
Always measure your progress, document them and present back to your supervisor, showing to them what
progress you are making.
What are you making?
Even you were getting in a particular obstacle in your journey.
Put it in a document in your progress file.
Measure it and show it to your direct manager.
Make sure that you are your direct manager is in the same page about your progress and also the hurdles
you are facing as well on the way.
Number four.
Like an example I just told about being your manager in the same page, giving them to understand what
your your manager is expecting on you.
Clearly listen to them and also understand what organization is expecting from you.
Also understand that what other people expect of you.
Put them all together and bring it to back to your manager.
In the end of the day, your manager is the one who set your priorities.
So even other people, even the manager of your manager, will give you an expectation, giving you
a task.
End of the day, bring it back to your manager.
Talk to your manager and say hey, you gave it to me A, B, C, d.
And now I got from the PR from CDF and my this this manager higher manager giving me to say XYZ what
I should do.
What how would you like to help me to prioritize this one?
And on what is your advice on me.
So work with your manager.
Whatever you're doing, bring it back to your direct manager.
Make sure that your direct manager is on the same page with you.
That will significantly help you out to pass the promotion, because then your manager can shift.
Reorganize your priorities and see that you guys are on the same page.
You will be in the right repo, and you'll be able to work together in a long period of time.
And that really shows that you are in this organization for staying for a long period of time.
And secondly, the probation period should be passed as well.
With this, I build a network.
So when you are in a company, you will need to work with other people.
You need to have a lot of people skills to work with other people.
There will be always some department.
There is always some great other people, senior level or senior level or junior level.
It's best to network with the people at your level or somebody a little bit.
One step forward.
Network with the people.
Spend time with them during lunch.
You can go to them after, after, after work, drinks or dinner with them and talk to them and go to
the meeting and more importantly, just to spend time with them being active, being a person to help
them on something small.
So you don't need to have to do something really big.
Help do small helps, which you can do.
Even if you just knew.
In this company you always have some capacity to help them and that will help you to build the networks.
Number six focus on listening and learning.
Use a new organization.
You don't know anything about this new company.
You We don't know anything about the structure, why they're doing this, this particular thing in that
way.
So one of the key things you need to do when you walk into this new company, you start to listen to
them, what they are doing and learn this organization, learn their culture, learn their management
policy.
You want to do an advice, a lot of things to change.
Do it later.
But first listen and learn.
This organization, culture, leadership, business, product strategies, goals and so on.
Number seven understand the big picture.
This is very important to you.
Sometimes your manager has been so busy and with so many other things, so it's quite hard for you to
understand the big picture from your manager or manager proactively will not be able to tell you.
So on this one you can start to look around different other speeches, what the CEOs talked about.
You can talk to other coworkers or other managers, get the strategy documents, read through, create
some kind of questions.
And then when you have time with your managers, bring them all together with you and said, hey manager,
I go through all the strategies.
This is what I understand.
This is what I have not understand.
What is your thoughts about it?
So please help me to understand that one too.
So understand the big pictures that will help you to understand why your department is doing that kind
of strategies, why they are prioritizing that product, why your organization is going there, what
is the expansion policy and what is the thing that will get you getting the same page?
Because you should not be in a different page from your department's face, the same thing.
You shouldn't be different from your organization page as well too.
So you got to be in the same page.
So that means you see that, okay, you should be a part of this bus.
The business is like a bus and you should be in the right place with them.
So you're not behind the bus or not in front of the bus.
You need to be in the bus.
So to be in the bus, you have to be in the right place.
Number eight do a stress management.
So new jobs, new worker, new product, new processes, new work, new teams, a lot of things you
need to learn.
So you need to learn about do it right.
Stress management A lot of people do like getting the new jobs job and start to work like 16 18 hours
of work to try to understand the job.
Everything in one day.
That's not the right way for you.
Probably you need to do it right.
Energy management night rest policy too, and you have to manage your stress as well to do the right
meditation, do the right food habit.
Doing the right sleeping, doing a little bit of exercise can help you to do it.
The right energy can really help you, right?
Energy management and then you do it with the right energy.
You can do the right stress management as well too.
So you need to pay attention about the stress management, doing what you need to do today and what
you need to do tomorrow.
Today is today.
Tomorrow work will do tomorrow.
That will really help you to do it.
So that if you build a schedule of learning and development, that will really help you out.
So one of the key things you could do is about you can work with the HR, VP or your function, who
can help you to learn the right thing.
You can work with the manager to if you have that, and then they can help you out to build your learning
path in the organization to get the right information inside of you so you can bring on the right time,
and you can keep learning without getting stressed.
Number nine.
This is really important.
Get your partner or lover or understand you.
Because when you join a new company, a new job, the first few months you will be doing a lot of extra
work to get you productive and you will be probably a little bit stressed as well too, because you
are doing a lot of new things.
You are in a probation period too, and you are learning in a lot of new things.
You are doing more work, so they need to support you on that, that part, they need to help you out.
They need to sympathize with you.
They need to get empathy.
So how can you really get it on?
You can get a lot of smart partner who can really understand, and they will empathize you by themselves.
But from yourself, you can actually tell them that, hey, this is the thing I'm doing.
I don't want to have this kind of argument.
I want to avoid this kind of distracted conversation.
I want to have a good conversation with you.
So my conversation with you can bring more energy and more peace, so I can come up and continue my
this, this new probation period so I can have a good full focus on my work, but doesn't mean that
I'm going to be an accent for you.
I'm going to be with you, but I want to have a quality time with you rather than have an argument and
have that conversation, and that will be quite distracting and could create more stress management
problems as well too.
That conversation is also you can initiate as well.
So there you go.
These are my nine tips.
You've got a new job.
Now you're going to pass the profession.
If you pass, you use this nine tips for your career in this next job.
Definitely you're going to pass the provisions and you can crush your or get your success forward.
And here you go.
Your professionals and your career need to be successful.
And you have everything you need to be successful.
And you want to pass the profession.
You've got this video.
You got the nine tips to pass the baton to use it.
Get successful by passing your profession.
All the best.


=== Leading the business as a Leader ===


--- What will you achieve from this module? ---

Do you know 46% newly appointed manager said this one.
They are not prepared enough to be successful into their role.
So that leads to a high level of managers who fail into their role after getting promoted to a manager
role or after joining a new organization.
And you know how much ready it is.
It's almost 35%.
The manager fell short to be successful after moving up to a manager level or to joining a new organization.
So how to solve it?
So to solve this one, it's one of the fundamental factors.
So we need to do is is about getting the right preparation.
So now who will help you as a leader to do the right preparation.
So most of us like who are looking for new leadership role, expect their own HR department to prepare
them completely to move up into the career.
But the real fact is this one HR often has very little resources to actually facilitate that kind of
support.
So that means it's all lead back to it's about individual leader to prepare themselves really well about
the leadership skill sets to And that compression helped them to be almost 50 times higher percentage
to become successful by just being better preparation into it, too.
And that's why the next lesson is going to be very important for you.
If you want to join a new organization or you have already gone to join a new organization recently,
or you want to get promoted in an organization, that lecture will be a game changer for you because
that the next lecture will help you to be well prepared for that one.
So you have a highly likely almost double your chance to be successful as a leader.
So one thing is very important.
Even an organization is promoting you inside to be a leader or manager.
It still applies on you to be well prepared, because as soon the promote you to the next level as a
leader or first time leader or people manager, or maybe even level up in the leader and people manager,
do you know what happens?
Organization almost fivex the expectations on you.
And to deliver that level of great expectation, you need a great preparation moving forward.
And that's why the next lesson is going to be a game changer for you.
And that's it for this session.
And I will see you in the next lesson.


=== Leading yourself as a Leader ===


--- The Leadership Scorecard: Unveil Your Strengths and Growth Areas ---

The manager who never take the program of leadership development, and another manager who has taken
the program has a chance of getting almost 30% increase on their salary income in their career.
Why?
Because that leadership skill set help them to become a person who can ensure the result their team
can create.
So now how can you can get those 30% increase of your earning power?
How can you get promoted faster by almost 30% and you can get more salary increase as well too?
To do this one, this one, the first step is about need to understand what level you are in.
What are your strengths and what are your weaknesses in terms of your leadership ability?
So it's basically we're trying to jump up to the next levels like an example.
We are playing a video game, right?
We all play the video game.
And like every level there is a boss and we need to kill to move to the next level.
And then that level also have another boss too.
So the same, we need to understand what level we are.
That means what capability we have and what are the weaknesses we have.
So we can solve them and we can move to the next level.
And that's why.
So what a big advantage I'm going to give it to you is from present level to the next level.
I'm going to give you a tour which is called a leadership scorecard.
And a leadership scorecard will help you to identify what level you are in.
So they will help you to identify what are the strengths and weaknesses you have, so you can prepare
to move to the next level of yourself too.
And to do this one, I have already prepared the scorecard for you.
Check the resource section of this video and there's a link.
Click that one and check the resource, and that will help you to reveal what level you are in.
So and also give you an expert advice from from me.
And also you will give you expert advices as well too about what you should do.
So those advices will be an add on bonus for you through the journey of these courses.
So you can apply and you can propel yourself and you always have this tool.
So I also suggest you to bookmark this tool.
So you can also take this tool every six months or three months in your career, so you can see what
level you are propelling forward and so on.
So what are you waiting for?
Check the resource section of this session, click the link and take the Leadership Scorecard.
And take this opportunity to know what level you are in and what you need to do moving forward.


=== Leverage AI, Data, and Digitalization In Your Leadership ===


--- Core Strategy on AI for A Modern Leader And Manager ---

Yeah.
He's not taking your job, but right now, someone using an AI tool can get the thing done in ten minutes,
which actually takes you hours to get it done.
And those people who are using AI tools are getting promoted because they're saving so much of the time
of getting more done into their working hours.
In this video, I'm going to show you how you can flip this game.
I'm going to give you one simple mindset shift.
85 million jobs are disappearing in the next one year because of AI and automation, but 97 million
jobs are being created.
If you are ready to take one of them, this isn't a threat.
It's actually a test.
And the people who are going to pass are going to own the next decades in their career.
These are the three lies I'm going to kill your career in this AI era.
Number one, working harder keeps you safe.
No, the one who is adapting smarter plus also putting the right amount of effort.
Are they going to win?
Number two AI is only for tech people.
AI is now transforming HR, finance, marketing, Everything in the business world.
Number three.
This is too late for me to start.
Wrong.
The rest is just starting.
And the fast learner is going to beat every adapters.
The real winners are not the AI, it's the AI enhanced humans.
This is not about coding and becoming the tech nerds.
It's all about learning how to partner with AI to evolve your creativity and your thinking, decision
making and creating and providing an offering a better output.
Let me show you how.
One of my clients used a simple AI strategy to make a big win for themselves.
Before, it was ten hours on reporting and now spending less than 30 minutes to getting them done in
weekly basis, and also getting better appreciation from the management and leaders.
So how do you get started on this one?
First, audit your time.
Next, highlight the repeatable and low grained tasks and then delegate them to AI.
And then you can focus on your high energy for building strategy, creativity and leadership.
For tools, you can start with ChatGPT or notion I and can use them all for emails, reports, presentation,
brainstorming, and even learning plans.
Here is your three step career power plan.
List down your top ten daily tasks and then identify which ones are repeatable.
And then commit to learning one of the AI tools like ChatGPT, Copilot, or any other available tools.
Step number three use it for your real task.
Example doing research, building a proposal, building a summary, or even making a first draft of
your plan.
Every time you're using an AI from setting a working hour, you're simply building a better leverage
for your career.
Every hour you hustle, someone else is taking the opportunity which are actually meant for you.
The AI age does not reward every learners, but actually reward the early and fast adopters who are
also learning in a very effective manner as well.
You are not competing with AI.
You're not even competing with humans.
You are actually competing with humans who know how to use AI.


=== Leverage this Course and Use Linkedin to Build Your Leadership Brand ===


--- 5 Key Mindset Shifts from Employee to Executive ---

Doodle.
What the McKinsey and company find out from the research.
This again gender insight.
The insight is this 192% of the fortune 500 companies say this one the carrier.
So a massive breakthrough when you start thinking like an employee and start thinking like a CEO.
So what is the CEO thinking here?
The CEO thinking is about core executive thinking.
So now the question about how can we think like an executive or how can we adopt an executive thinking?
So I'm going to give you right now five fundamental shifts, which are going to help you to move from
an employee thinking to an executive thinking.
And this is not going to be just a only coaching session.
We're going to interact together too.
So pause the video right now.
Go to the resource section.
Download the template right now.
And we're going to do an interactive session together.
And what are you going to do an activity with me.
And we're going to define how do we get shifted from employee thinking and move to an executive thinking.
And we also know that when where are you between these two shifts, and we will define some particular
actions to get you to zero.
Thinking why?
Because when you are going to have an executed thinking, one thing will happen to your career.
What is it?
It's called career breakthrough.
And that's exactly what you want, right?
So pause the video right now, get the template and get back to me right now.
The first sheet is about doing to thinking.
And the employee mindset is this employee thinking, what task do I need to get done today?
An executive thinking, is this about what is my long term vision?
What is the outcome?
Do I need to generate to make the vision come into the true?
Deloitte reported this 186% executives say this one.
The one thing which actually differentiates between an executive and to a leader is called strategic
thinking.
And that comes with your executive thinking as well.
So one of the best things would be to start on, stop thinking like, what is the task I need to get
done today and start asking this question, what is the biggest value can I create for the company today?
And then to make that value created, what are the tasks?
Should I align after that?
So now you have the template already.
So now I want you to pause the video.
And I want you to rate yourself from 0 to 10.
Right now zero means you are very much about employee thinking, and ten means you are perfect in terms
of your execute thinking.
Rate yourself into the template and then you're going to get back to me.
So now let's pause the video and put your rating.
All right you got your ratings.
So now we're going to move to the next sheet.
So next shift is about being managed to leading without a title.
Here is the employee mindset.
I need a manager to tell me what to do.
And other side, the executive mindset is this I take ownership and lead doesn't matter.
What is my title?
Do you know Indra Nooyi?
She's the former CEO of PepsiCo.
Do you know how she started her career?
She started her career as a product manager, where from day one, she was taking as a CEO, as a trainee
mindset inside of her.
So even she was leading multi cross-functional team even before taking any leadership role.
And what happened to her?
The rest is history.
She became the CEO of the PepsiCo.
But not only that, she was one of the most influential business lady in the whole world.
So here's the key action.
Start leading in your current role identifying challenge.
Propose a solution and execute it.
And that is the game changer.
So now it's time for you to read on this sheet.
So now I want you to pause the video, get to the template and rate yourself from 0 to 10.
Zero means you are very far behind.
And ten means you are an excellent pace.
Read it out to yourself and then you get back to me.
You have done it already.
So now we're going to move to shift number three.
The third shift is this one shift from short term thinking to long term vision.
And here is the employee thinking.
What is my next pay raise.
And on the other side the executive thinking is this what I'm going to be and what I'm going to achieve
in the next 3 to 5 years in this company?
Let me share with you one light bulb moment is coming from PwC.
91% of CEOs say this one.
Their ability to think long term and predict the future pattern is the one that drive them to become
successful and lead them to a career success.
Do you know Elon Musk?
You probably know him.
So what is it about Elon Musk?
What actually differentiate him so much compared to anyone else?
He does not think what Tesla will become in the next six month period of time, but he always think
about and do the thing accordingly what he will become in the next 50 years.
And here is the action for you.
Write down your five years career roadmap, and then you reverse engineer that one and identify your
goals and actions you need to accompany to get there.
So now it's time for you to write your this factor, how good or how well planned you have right now
about this thing.
Pause the video, get to the template and ready yourself and get back to me and I will tell you the
next shift.
All right, you have done it already.
So with this one.
Now let's move to the sheet number four.
The sheet number four is about avoiding the risk taking to a smart risk taking.
This word is the employee mindset.
I don't want to make a mistake and take risk.
Other side.
The executive thinking is this.
I want to take calculated risk and use that one to drive innovation.
Jeff Bezos famously said this line if you don't want to get criticized.
Don't do anything new.
And Amazon's all.
The biggest breakthrough.
Comes to their company is just taking heavy amount of risk.
Do you know.
So before that one Microsoft.
Was crumbling.
But when you join the CEO of Microsoft he actually transformed the vision of the Microsoft.
He heavily focused about AI and cloud.
And he took the high risk and high reward approach.
And you know what?
What happened to the Microsoft.
The valuation of the Microsoft is three x moving forward on that.
So here's the action for you I want you to think and pause this video.
Is this what is the one smart risk you can take in this month right now which can help you to thrive
forward?
So let's identify that smart risk and then let's talk about it.
So now go to the template.
Pause the video and write it down.
What is this?
What is the risk are you taking in this month?
All right.
You have done the fourth stage.
So with that one, let's start with the fifth and final shift you need to do.
And this shift is about thinking about individual success to the team growth.
And employee mindset is about I need to be the best contributor in the team and the other side.
The executive mindset is about I want to build the best team I could have and elevate each of my team
members.
And here's a light bulb moment coming out from Forbes 70% successfully executed.
Say this one is recruiting, inspiring and developing them one of the most crucial factor for their
career success?
You know Steve Jobs, right.
The famously the founder of Apple.
But you know, Tim Cook's was always been the side hero.
But what he did after Steve Jobs passed away, he became the CEO and he built one of the most strongest
team ever under his leadership and what it turned Apple into.
It turned Apple into the most valuable company of this world.
So here is a little action for you.
Choose one person to mentor and help that person to grow, because that will help you to even grow further
as well.
So with this one, it's time for you to rate yourself on this factor.
So I want you to pause the video, get to the template, put your rating out there and get back to me.
All right.
So now we have got all the rating for the five sheets.
So the maximum point of all this template is about 50 and the minimum is zero.
So here is the point I will tell you right now if you are scoring more than 40 right now you are in
pretty good shape.
But if you belong to 30 to 40 you are in not in good shape.
You need to get to the 40 as soon as possible, but if your score is less than 30, you have a high
chance of getting replaced and your career going to have a major issue moving forward.
So you really need to take actions to transform and change yourself.
But here's the good news.
You already find out this program and you're in the courses and in this course I'm going to help you.
I'm going to push you.
I'm going to inspire you.
I'm going to give you the skills, and I'm going to transfer all the skills, what I have achieved in
my own personal life to you so you can level up your skill set.
But here's the point.
Remember these five shifts I get to make all the shifts happen and I'm going to support you.
I'm going to inspire you to make this shift happen inside of you.
So let's move to the next coaching sessions and let's get started on this.


=== Preparing and Getting a leadership Role ===


--- Are You Ready to Rethink and Reimagine Leadership? ---

What if I told you 70% of the leader today are not fit for the future?
What is coming through?
It'll shock you.
But here's the point.
Let's talk some insights.
According to Gartner, the sale is on.
64% of the leader are not ready for the future where the company is looking for the other side.
The McKinsey is saying this.
The leaders who are investing in developing their skill set on AI first leaderships are already starting
to observe three X growth in the career or revenue for the company compared to their peers.
So here's the message.
The leadership playbook, which you have learned yesterday, going to be one of the biggest liability
for you in the tomorrow.
As a leader, we are not managing the task anymore.
We are designing an ecosystem.
Every decisions you make interact with algorithm, every employees you lead use data enhanced tools.
Every competitor you face already embedded AI into their strategy.
Leadership is not about human versus machine, but leadership is now is all about how to use strategise
machine into the right framework and right execution.
So can unlock the human highest potentials.
Now let me give you three light bulb moments.
What is this the first one?
According to the World Economic Forum, 80% job will require AI fluency.
The second language movement is coming from Deloitte's 52% of all the fortune 500 companies already
embedded AI into their leadership core strategy already.
And the third one is coming from PwC.
It says leaders who are resisting AI adaptations are most likely 2.5 x, most likely to get replaced
into the role into the carrier in next just three years period of time.
Yes, I really said three years.
Leadership is not just about evolving anymore, it's already been rewritten.
The leaders who are unable to rethink about the roles and responsibilities will not be just disrupted,
but they will become irrelevant.
I say the word irrelevant.
So now the question is about how do we handle this situation as a leader?
How do we thrive forward?
So I'm going to share with you three fundamental pillars which are going to help you to strengthen overall
discourses.
But right now let me mention what are these three pillars.
The number one is AI.
Augmented decisions use AI as one of your decision support system.
To find idea, light up your dark moments.
Get the relevant insights, uncovering different unseen risks and act like you are not alone.
You integrate that power with you.
Let me give you an example.
It's coming from DBS Bank.
They use AI powered dashboard which constantly equipped with all the executives and leaders with two
very powerful things.
What is this thing?
The first one, they're on top of the customer needs.
And on the other side, this dashboard is giving them 60% faster rate in terms of their product innovation.
The second pillar is the data driven empathic leadership without data is just basically guessing.
So the point is about how do we combine data and experience and intuition together so we can understand
what people do and also why people do it.
One of the company is really making the best out of it is Unilever.
They are constantly looking for AI powered human or employee sentiment and real time.
So what's the result out of it?
Now they get 25% less employee turnover rate.
The third column is transformation.
Architect leaders main responsibility is not just now only about managing changes.
So what's the thing leaders need to do?
Leaders need to be an architect to a constant renovation moving forward.
So the question is about how can we do that?
The first one, the first failed innovation cycle.
Number two reward I fluency and I usage constantly all over the team.
Number three design Human-ai collaboration approach, not just silos.
One of the company, Schneider Electric, have done this.
They have trained in AI literacy to all the leaders and use AI on every strategy review.
And you know what?
What is the outcome they have got?
They got double digit growth into the business.
When we talk about AI or leadership 4.0, there are three black holes where people get lost, which
I want to show you right now.
So you can just simply avoid that one.
So what are those three things?
Number one, don't wait for HR or IT to teach you about AI.
Use Self-learn and Self-educate constantly moving forward.
Number two, don't just dismiss data because it just challenges your intuitions, but use data to argue
with you constantly.
Don't think digital transformation is a project.
It's a new daily operating system in a business in this age of AI.
Leaders are not measured by how much they really know, but they are constantly measured by these two
things.
Number one, how fast they can adapt, and number two, how fast they can reimagine the future.
So the question I want you to ask as a leader, are you going to take your team whole back into the
past, or you want to empower and invest in your team to thrive in the future?
What is the answer?
I want you to pause this video right now and take a moment to think about it, and I want you to think
about a scale of 0 to 10.
Zero means absolutely no, and ten means absolutely yes.
And through this program, I want you to enhance you.
And I want to encourage you.
I want you to upskill you and inspire you to get to the ten.
But right now, let's pause the video and get your numbers honestly and write it down in your desktop
or in your paper notebooks you have in front of you.
Got the number right?
And here's the point your first transformation is not your company.
So what is it?
It's you.
And I'm here to help you through this transformation journey.


=== Rethink & Reimagine Leadership ===


--- How to Make the Best Use of This Course ---

After getting a piece of information or knowledge or skill, someone meant $1 million.
And on the other side, someone makes nothing and the rest just in the middle.
Have you ever thought, why is that like that?
What is the things?
Make it happen.
And that's the thing.
We're going to break it down together in this presentation.
Ready?
Of course you are.
Let's get started.
According to Doctor Cohen, he's a professor from Duke University.
People forget 90% of what they learn within a week.
If they don't revisit or apply it, what does it mean?
It means that if you just keep watching as, like a buffet this overall course, and then you never
come back and learn it and revisit it again, or if you don't apply it, you're going to lose 90% of
the knowledge you're about to get in this course.
But here is the twist.
The top 1% Learners, consultants, entrepreneurs and high performers don't just take a course, they
leave it.
I personally, whenever I'm taking a particular course, I take that 7 to 10 times.
It's not because I'm slow, it's because I'm going to really deep down on each of the knowledge and
information I'm going to get in and turning all of them into my own personal knowledge, into skills,
and finally my own identity.
And when I'm building all this identity, I'm also creating a whole new sets of habits.
And here is your roadmap to create your identity through this course.
This course is not for just a passive consumption.
This is a step by step journey from knowledge to the skill.
And finally, you build an identity.
And big part of your identity is going to have a whole new set of habits.
And if you're ready to build a better version of yourself, here is how exactly we're going to help
you to get there.
Step one prepare your launch pad before you dive in.
Here is the most important tool you need to get started into this course.
It's not about getting a textbook.
It's not about getting another coach.
It's not about any particular software as well too.
So what is it?
You will need a notebook or a digital doc file.
Get ready in your computer, because your journey through this course is going to involve you with a
lot of deep thinking.
Believe.
Breaking ideation and personal breakthroughs.
This is your parking lot for big ideas.
This is your sandbox for testing new beliefs.
This is your launch pad where raw thoughts transform into clear directions, strategy, and action.
When your ideas live on your brain, It's fades away.
But when your idea is already in the paper or in a written in a doc file, it's thrive and it grows
over there.
So pause now.
Get a notebook or open a doc file in your computer and then rename the doc with this text My Transformational
Journal.
So let's pause the video, get it, and get back to me.
Trust me, the biggest transformation breakthrough we're going to come through to you throughout this
courses, not from anywhere else, but from that launch pad, doc file or the notebook you have.
Just get in your hand right now.
So one of the things you're going to do right now, I want you to think for two minutes and write down
the future version you want to build for yourself about this program where you are right now is fine,
but where do you want to be after finishing the course?
I want you to write down the first page of your notebook or the note doc you have just opened up.
Write it down there and get back to me.
So let's pause the video.
Let's write it down and get back to me.
Throughout these courses, I'm not going to spoon feed you the answer.
I'm going to train your mental muscle by asking you through with a set of challenging and hard questions
that unlocks your clarity, action, and innovation.
Let me ask you this question now what is the one belief you're holding into that might be limiting the
person you are becoming?
So now I want you to pause the video right now and write down the answer into your transformation journal
notebook right now, and get back to me in a few minutes.
So what are you going to answer it?
Your question.
You're going to answer it.
Is this what belief am I ready to question today?
That's the answer you're going to write down.
So let's pause the video, write it down and get back to me.
The number two key unlock you're going to get from this course is the journey.
Learn from real life experience.
I'm not going to giving you any recycled theories from the different textbooks in this course.
I'm going to giving you my unfiltered journey with paints, mistakes, patterns that worked and the
models which I wished I knew earlier.
Let me tell you what I normally usually don't share.
The first time I bought an online course, I thought I would crushed it in one weekend, but I did not.
What I did, I skimmed it through and I felt very excited and that's why nothing changed.
But it wasn't until I revisit the courses for around seven times.
Build rituals and fail forward and integrate it into my skill sets.
What I have learned in the course.
And that's when my transformation becomes inevitable.
And here's the question I want to ask you.
Are you willing to revisit this course like a blueprint?
Not once, but until it shapes who you are.
The third transformation key you're going to receive from this course is the habits.
You're going to break down your old habits, and you're going to build new habits, which will take
you to the better version of yourself.
The transformation doesn't happen because you feel inspired.
It happens when you turn your repeated action into a habit loop.
This course is actually a habit system in disguise in a packaged education format.
Every module, every lectures you take in this course is an opportunity for you to spot a poor habit.
Replace it with a new one and repeat it until it becomes part of you.
So continuously throughout the program, every lessons you will be asking this question to yourself.
Which habits are costing you your future and which new one could replace them?
Now I want you to think through the three habits you think you have as costing your future.
The poor three habits.
And I want you to pause the video, write down your transformation journal book, and get back to me
in a few minutes.
All right, let's do it.
The fourth stream of this course is going to be frameworks, the clarity which you can use in the real
world.
Every concept I'm going to coach you throughout the program will come along with a particular created,
customized framework for you.
Every concept I'm going to teach you throughout this program will come along with a visual, customized,
and decision based framework for you.
So these are your tools which you can apply instantly when you get stuck.
And also you use it before even you start because you already have a tool.
So every execution is going to be a significantly simpler and easier for you to get to the desired outcome
for you.
So here's the question I want you to always ask throughout this course, or anything you want to achieve
in your life, or any work you want to achieve.
When you face uncertainty, do you rely on emotion or do you have a proven framework to guide you?
Now here's the thing everything I do, I always like to use the framework because it's been proven and
it's an instant solution, a blueprint I can apply to get to the outcome.
What I'm looking for.
The fifth transformation stream you're going to get in this course is about mental models.
It's about time tested shortcuts from the field.
So mental models are the thinking shortcuts from psychology, economics and decision science.
I'm going to coach you in this program how to see the real world differently.
So you don't waste years through your testing, trial and error and all these different loops.
Because I'm going to give you a sense of mental model, which you can use as your shortcuts to get to
the outcome.
It's going to be like a springboard.
You're jumping from one place to another place by using this mental model, and you'll be jumping in
the right direction as well.
So now I want you to ask this question.
I want you to think through and then write it down in your notebook.
What if one new lens of thinking could annex your outcomes.
Would you take the time to install it?
Answer shouldn't be yes.
No, it should be, of course.
Yes.
Now I want to do a little bit of micro actions with you right now.
Choose one mental model you are using now regularly and write it down.
If you don't use any mental model, then also write down none and end of the course.
We will change it together.
So now let's pause the video, write it down and get back to me.
The transformation stream in this course is about challenged, where the new growth happens in a different
part of different coaching sessions and different modules, I will be throwing you different challenges
for you to accomplish.
It's like I'm going to give you all the handrails in different coaching sessions, and I'm going to
give you the directions, but you need to now climb the mountain.
So through that activity, by climbing this mountain means going through those challenges.
You build up the real skills which you are aiming to have, because that skills will get you there when
you want to go in your journey.
So here's the thing I want you to ask continuously throughout these courses to yourself.
Are you willing to trade temporary discomfort for permanent growth?
And my answer is, if you ask me, it's always in hell.
Yeah, I want to do it because that will give me the better version of myself, which I'm looking at
every possible morning until I go to bed.
Before you move to the next coaching session of this program, I want to leave you with this question.
If you truly give yourself to this course not as a viewer, but as a student of transformation, who
would you become 90 days from now?
Now I want you to take your journal Transformation Journal notebook back and this is the version of
me I commit to become through this course.
I wanted to pause this video, write down the answer, and get back to me.
All right, you have done it.
So now not just leave it there.
I want you to sign it under it.
Sign your signatures, write down your name under it, and then let's crack it through each of the lessons
together, because we're going to get you there.
You ready?
Of course you are.
So let's get started right now.

--- The Executive Edge: How Top Leaders Learn Faster to Win in the AI Era ---

The difference between the leaders and executives who are really thriving in the era of AI right now
is not the intelligence, it's the way and how fast they can learn right now.
60% of executives and leaders of those top companies, they reskill themselves in every 12 months on
every key skills they're having right now.
If the leaders and executives of the top companies of the world can learn like that, you can do it
too as well.
And in this coaching session, I'm going to give you five key frameworks and mental models so you can
start using them from today to learn exactly the same speed of those top companies, executives and
leaders.
I have trained more than 50,000 leaders and executives from the world.
Top companies like Siemens, ISG, Heineken, Samsung and I have seen what exactly those leaders and
executives of the world top companies are doing to learn so they can simply outperform any other companies
and executives.
And not only that, all this model they use to simply outsmart all the changes, including the AI.
And in this course, I'm going to show you how you can do that as well.
So let's get started with the first one.
The first one is about the compass framework means that typically gives you the clarity.
So mental model on this one is about the great learners.
Start with directions.
And to do this one they start with this question what is the one outcome I want?
I'm going to give you three tips right now.
So your every learning will be really, really strategic.
The first one is about define a Learning North Star each week.
Number two use 8020 filter.
Focus on high impact knowledge, not just learning everything.
Learn would simply put you ahead.
And what you're learning with me right now in this program is definitely is belong to that 20%.
Because anything belong to 80% for executive to learn.
I never, never don't teach or coach anyone.
Anything I produce is from belong to the 10% and sometimes even the the 5%.
They must need to know to thrive.
For in this present Vuca world.
The third one is about use learning with the core outcome, not just with best of your curiosity.
You will be doing this one because you want an outcome in you from this learning.
The second framework is about the flywheel.
It's typically giving you the consistency.
So the mental model for this one is about small daily input compound into an exponential mastery.
Start with this question.
Am I just learning continuously or am I just simply restarting my learning every day?
I'm going to give you three tips which can help you to execute this framework really well in your learning
journey moving forward.
The first one.
Schedule 20 minutes.
Microlearning blocks.
Number two track progress weekly and number three use AI tools for spaced repetition.
So the third framework is about called the filter.
It's typically I call it as an information mastery.
The mental model I use for this.
Top executives don't consume more the filter harder.
So for this one, the self-evaluating question I want to give it to you is this do I drown into noise
or extract the one signal.
So here are the three tips.
The first one the follow trusted curators, not endless feeds.
Number two summarize everything you learn in three bullet points.
And number three, practice ruthless not to learn list because that's what we're going to keep you.
What you should never learn.
Like there's a lot of skill people are talking about.
You don't need to learn anymore because you can eliminate those skills or you can have some tools do
it for you for free.
So not to learn.
Skill list is really important one.
All right.
The framework number four the sandbox I call it the experimentations.
The powerful question you need to ask about do I really practice my new idea, new knowledge immediately
or just simply holding them?
So now I'm going to give you three tips that will help you to use this framework even better.
The first tip is about run mini experiments within 24 hours of learning.
Don't wait.
The longer the wait, the worse you make.
Number two treat failure as data number three share experiments Remains publicly to get the feedback
because everything you experimented maybe went wrong.
Maybe something you missed out.
Maybe you do not have the right resources.
Maybe you have done it the wrong way.
So when you share about this one, some other people share their own opinion and that will give you
a better understanding about the experiment, even from your failed experiment to.
All right.
The fifth framework I call it the letter and it's networks and mentorships.
It's about the smart executives climb faster by standing on other's shoulders.
This self-evaluation question are you really learning everything yourself, or are you really leveraging
other people's playbook?
So I'm going to give you three tips so you can really make the maximum utilize of this framework.
The first one build a learning board of advisors.
Number two ask mentors a specific question monthly.
And third thing is about join AI driven peer learning groups.
So from that one they use the AI to leverage the learning even faster.
All right.
So now you have learned those five powerful frameworks used by World's greatest companies, successful
leaders and executives so they can learn way ahead of others with the least effort and faster, so they
can outsmart all the other competitors and stay ahead with all the changes, including AI.
The executive I train, they just don't learn faster.
They learn with the least effort, least time, and they really move them in a transformation path.
And so they always have one key advantage.
They is called a momentum.
So they just keep going forward because they don't have to push a lot because of the momentum.
They just keep moving forward from anyone else and keep winning and winning and winning.
And you know what?
I want that happen to your life.
And that's why I'm here to give you the biggest clap.


=== Science Based Leadership Mastermind ===


--- How Challenge Transform your knowledge in to Real Life Practical Skills ---

What if I tell you your biggest breakthrough is hidden under the challenge you're about to face?
Or maybe the biggest challenge you're about to face?
92% of the people never achieve their goals.
But why?
The other 8% make the goals.
Any idea?
It's because they just don't avoid the challenge.
They are the ones who chase the challenge.
And here is the point.
The challenge is the secret engine of personal transformation.
And you are here for that, right?
Because I'm here to facilitate you that transformation.
Think about this.
Every big win in life started with one thing.
What is it?
It's challenge.
And it's not only just hypothesis.
It's been proven by the research coming out from Harvard Business Review.
They find that this one people, professionals who chase challenge, they are 40% more likely to be
successful compared to others who do not chase the challenge.
So here's the point.
It's not a talent.
It's not the luck.
It's all about respond On correctly.
When the things become hard.
When you face challenge your brain turn into a new mood.
What is that called?
Adaptive learning.
And when you trigger that mood of your brain, your brain can find some new type of solution.
And here's the insight MIT.
Find out in the research.
This is going to be a game changer for you.
The people who are learning under pressure their neural path get three x faster developed compared to
the other one who are typically focused about learning passively.
Just look back.
Every successful athlete, entrepreneur, professionals, they do one thing.
They turn every challenges into their opportunities.
The question is how, right?
Because they have one very powerful habit.
What is it?
And this is the habit.
Every time they face challenges that they see, that is a great opportunity to apply the knowledge into
real life.
And that is one of the great way to turn their knowledge into the skills we always learning here and
there, watching content, watching newspapers, watching blogs.
But how much do we all the time keep those knowledges?
That's the point.
According to the research you find out this one everything we learn, almost all of it, we forget really,
really fast.
So what we can keep and how can we keep faster?
That's the question right?
And that's why the challenge is the game changer.
Because when we face challenge and we apply our information or we find information to solve a particular
challenge, the retention of knowledge or information is almost 70% more higher compared to when we
just passively learning.
So here is a powerful one.
If you ever hear about grit, you probably can already start to imagine.
But if you never hear, it's not a problem because I'm going to tell you right now your ability to persist
on the adverse situation or going through a challenge, staying calm and going through it, is that
power is a lot more valuable and much more going to make someone successful compared to the talent or
even IQ.
And here is the magic.
When you face any particular challenge with the right mindset, you get into a transformation loop.
And that is the beautiful.
And this happens on this five steps.
Step number one you face discomfort.
Step number two you adapt and learn.
Step number three you develop new skill set.
Step number four you create a breakthrough.
And then step number five you repeat the process.
And that's how you level up yourself to the next level.
And in this program we have created a one challenge for you one module for you which is related to you.
The challenge.
Because all this challenge, we are going to prepare you for real life because all the things you are
learning right now from different module, that challenge will be your time to apply all the learning
to turn this technology into highly effective into your skill sets.
And like I say this one, that when you applying the knowledge you are learning from the module and
applying them into the challenges with me, and that means you can have almost 70% more likely to keep
your all the knowledge you are learning from the model and that's why you're here.
You want to learn to develop skill set and you want to retain the knowledge inside of you.
And that's why I have designed specifically for you this challenges.
And here's the the beautiful part.
I did not just make the challenges to make you suffer and make you cry.
I do not want it to throw you in the ocean.
I want to be with you.
I'm going to swim through with you that ocean.
I'm going to play with you.
I'm going to guide you.
With you.
I'm going to inspire you.
I'm going to give you step by step resources.
I'm going to give you templates.
I don't want to make you win because you are here to win all of the challenge.
And I want to make you a winner.
And I'm going to give you some exciting rewards for winning all those challenges as well too.
So here's the point.
The challenge is going to be coming on into the program and that challenge you choose to accept.


=== Use Meetings to get things done and boost productivity ===


--- Design Your success in your probation period with this 90 Days Blueprint ---

Do you know, around 20% to 30% professional fail their professional probation period of their job?
20 to 30% fail their probation period.
So for this one, we did a little bit of investigation.
And we found out that the core reason is two.
Number one Proactiveness.
And second, to a proper plan for starting a new job or even internships.
So if you are watching this video, you just got a job or or just got an internship or going to get
a job or internship, this is a perfect video for you.
Because in this video, I'm not going to give you some gross advice only, but I'm going to give you
a tool, a template, which will help you to be proactively and plan to pass your first 90 days successfully
to your new job or internship.
You want that, right?
Of course you do.
You want to be successful in your career and your new job or internship.
So what are you waiting for?
Let's get started.
So like I said this one I'm going to give you a plan and template.
So number two key reason professional failing is because lack of plan and productivity.
So I'm going to give you this 90 day success plan template to use for you to plan out your success of
your new new career as a new job or even an internship.
Remember, if you're taking an internship means it should be turned into a job after you successfully
completing that one.
If you just finishing the internship at that are not companies.
Not offering you a job means you are not successful as an intern.
The same way, if you're taking a job and you're not getting promoted into your company means you are
not doing a great work.
So now how do we do great work to get promoted on the way and also became successful on your first 90
days?
So first thing first.
So this is the template I'm going to share with you in the description section.
You can get the link.
So first thing you could do definitely you can, you can just come in and you can just copy it and you
can use it in a Google Drive.
Or you can go to the download and you can download it as a word file.
So you'll be able to edit it.
So what is inside the template.
So first you scroll down.
First of all you mention your names, your titles and your departments you're taking on.
And now here's the important point.
What is your product?
Every company who recruited you in any position, there is a particular product you are selling.
Even you work on an IT department.
Like an example.
One of the product maybe you're selling is about digital transformation.
Is your product.
Even as an intern, you are not really selling the shoe, which is your company you're selling on,
or maybe you are in a marketing department in, or maybe you're a receptionist.
Maybe you receptionist you are selling is about professional look to the company, so you need to write
it down.
What is your products and what are the things you are really selling and now the preparation part.
Technical help desk.
this.
Write down where you are getting all the technical help desk.
The Guardian source is about what is the Guardian Source?
Your first day?
How did you feel and how things you like most?
Also write it down the people directory and communication thing.
Make sure that you start filling in the day one and moving forward in first two weeks to get your template
ready, and then don't see it as a final version, then you continuously you're going to use this template
to fill up more information.
So now meet your team.
So you just join the job.
So now first thing your most important person in your team is your supervisor or manager.
So you fill up your name, email, phone number positions and more importantly three strength of your
manager.
Supervisor.
You may not know all of them, or maybe you are not really sure about it, but from your first impression
you can write it down one, two, three.
There's the strengths and then on the way you will be able to adjust it accordingly.
Why?
Because it's so important that you need to understand your team and clearly understand your supervisor.
Otherwise you will not be able to plan your succession of 90 days probation successfully pass through
and you're not able to get get promoted to because you will not be able to adjust with your supervisor.
Now that's a positive.
Now it's time for you with your team.
And you do exactly the all the team members you have.
And you list out their top three strengths as well too.
Now you scroll down.
Now you think about extended team.
Who are the other team outside of your team?
Maybe not in your departments.
If you are in a in a unit, maybe another unit under the same department, if you're in one department,
think about what are the key departments which you really want to closely work with.
Write down their names, email address, phone number and positions, and the strength phone actually
optional.
But get the get the email address, which is very simple one.
And now support teams to deliver your work.
There is always your need to depend on some other teams.
They are called the supporting teams.
So now you need to identify who are those really supporting team members you need to work on and write
down the names, email, phone number, position and the strengths as well too.
Again, I'm telling you right now, the strength is not the final version.
You can always change it on the way.
In the beginning you can fill it up the way you want, you felt and then you could.
On the way you can improvise and improve and more clarity you will get when you're working with them.
And then you can update it here as well too.
So now so here is some guiding thoughts for you when you get into this job.
It's about first you need to be very proactive, stay proactive and avoid being reactive in the team
because the last thing your line manager and the team want to see you very reactive.
Give yourself a space to observe and learn and think.
Don't be very rush into it, but always observe and then be proactive.
Relationship matters.
You need to focus about how to build a relationship inside your team and the supervisor, and all the
different team members like your team members, your supporting team members.
And you need to think about how to build a relationship with extended team members, all those team
members.
You need to build relationships too, and then you have to ask great questions.
Don't ask poor questions or don't ask other things which is already available for you.
Because when you are asking poor question that shows you are not careful and you not value their time,
that is a relationship killers and then seek first to be understood.
Make sure that you always understand your team member first before they understand you.
That's the thing.
Another thing is always think about, think win, win.
Always think that your team should be winning because you are there.
So think and find out what are the key things.
You can add values to your team from day one.
So the reason should be clear to your team because you are there.
So team is getting help from you.
Not that you are there and getting help from them.
That should not be appearing to them, otherwise it's going to win lose.
That means you are winning.
They are losing and that's should not be the case.
Another key advice I want to give.
I want to give it to you.
Give help first before asking.
You can give very small help to them.
Even you can see there's something they're doing.
You can come and say, hey, can I help you with this one?
I can design this thing.
Maybe I can, I can give you some suggestion about this one.
I have some experience about it.
Hey, can I help you with this one?
Can I, by giving some feedback, opinion, suggestion?
Maybe I can help you to do this design as well too.
Or maybe I can help you to make this plan as well.
To maybe first version I can make it to you and then you can get help.
That really shows you have a really good attitude and you and that really helped establish you there,
because that's how it works.
Attitude is a big thing.
And you can actually when you are keep working, don't just stop doing this.
Seven keep adding more about you because more they will go through and you will you will be able to
learn to.
So now here's the thing.
There are a few first two weeks checklists I would like to highly recommend.
And here's the thing you should be attending and completing the new employee onboarding program.
Then you complete your onboarding program assessment to assign is done.
You can tick them off as well to get set up your computer and access on the system.
Uh, take a tour of your office.
Get a one on meeting with your the manager.
This is very important.
Build your first 90 days plan.
So the more you can do, you can just tick them off to make sure this is done.
And now your 90 day milestones.
99 milestone is about you understand your company goal values and cultures.
The more you understand you can tick them off to there and you can always add more, which you think
that is necessary for your company and your role.
Now about your product.
I know and understand my product, my idea to extend my product.
So these are the key things I added on here.
You go through all of them and tick them off more.
You understand.
And when you're done.
No.
My team then no.
My role is these are like a sample task that I've added on.
This is a really important point too.
So what I like to suggest to you is about you can download this file and you can save it in your, in
your, in your desktop or even you can come in and you can actually add a shortcut of your drive.
And so you can easily access that file as well too.
And you can always up to date here my and about updates how you can do that when I will shortly share
with you too as well.
So and then.
But let me go through first of the template.
Now here's a very important one contribution and performance metrics.
This is very important that when you are in a role that you really need to be your first charge.
If you're just waiting for a manager to judge you, you are going to be in trouble because you need
to judge yourself so, so you can easily correct yourself and assess yourself.
Where are you going so you can take the right step as a proactive manner so you can make it better.
So here's the way you should judge yourself in every first 30 days.
What did they learn?
Write it down all the things you have learned.
And then the second column, you write it down.
What did they contribute to the team and my company?
Write it down.
All your contribution.
If you see that your contribution is less, you need to find a way to add more.
And then where did they fail?
You must be fail on something, even a big thing or small thing.
But here is the one when every failure should turn into a lesson learned for you here, make sure that
that failure should turn into a lesson.
Learn so you can always see them and also see them what you're contributing to it, that's the way you
do it.
First 30 days, 60 days and 90 days.
So then it will become a very powerful contributions and performance metrics for you to judge yourself
first so you can quickly adjust your performance to become successful on your profession roadway.
So here's the point.
I already told you how to use this templates and this tool, but how to update it?
Because if you don't update it properly, it will not be very efficient.
So first thing first, save it in your desktop as a as a word file, like a citizen you can download
and word file.
Or you could save it up as a link.
And you can just simply bookmark it in your browser so you can easily access it.
And and so you can easily access that one too.
But before doing that one, you can always make a copy.
So you can it will be saved in your own Google Drive as well too, and it will be accessed for you.
And now how to clearly update that one?
Set up a block in your calendar.
Just simply, if you're using Chrome, you come in and click the calendar and do a load of here for
you.
And now what do you do is about I would like to suggest you to do a two review sessions per week moving
forward for yourself to update this template.
So first thing first, you take this copy as a link.
Now the second thing you're coming on, let's say I like to suggest to you on two days on Monday, normally
you're really, really busy.
You can pick two days.
You can copy my options.
The goal is to remind yourself you want a tool to remind you.
So here you can write down update my my 90 days progress and you can put the link here.
And now you can say review my 90 days plan.
And then all you need to do is about you can come in and you can customize into it.
And now what you do is about Tuesday and Friday, two days you choose on and you could say this one
is about you could put a never or you can just repeat every weeks and then you can done it and now you
can save it up.
So now you see on your calendar it's been already there.
So every Tuesday and Friday you will get a notifications in your calendar to your email inbox, so you
can easily see this one.
This is a time for review, and every Tuesday and Friday this time, don't do anything else except this
one.
And it cannot happen because nobody can book you in this scanner because you are already busy this time
doing in the one hour interview.
If you think that one hour is really, really long for you, you don't really need it.
You can put it on 1.5 hours, just like 30 minutes into that one too, and that will be fine as well.
So 1 hour or 30 minutes you choose, but I suggest you to spend at least 30 minutes or 1 hour.
Everything is fine.
So that's the way you say it.
A great way to make sure that you set a plan for your professional success.
So you got the tools.
Now you put it to work and become highly successful.
